The continuous expression of HPV oncogenes E6 and E7 contributes to the maintenance of the cervical cancer (CC) phenotype by altering gene expression programs involved in tumor progression and aggressiveness. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as critical regulators of gene expression in CC, including miR-218-5p, which has been described as a tumor suppressor. In this study, we investigated the impact of HPV-16 oncoproteins E6 and E7 on the regulation of miR-218-5p expression and its target gene PIK3C2A, as well as their functional and clinical relevance in CC. We found that miR-218-5p expression is significantly reduced in HPV-16-positive CC cell lines, while PIK3C2A expression is increased. Silencing the expression of the E6/E7 oncogenes in Ca Ski cells restored miR-218-5p levels and reduced PIK3C2A expression. Conversely, overexpression of the E6 and E7 oncogenes in C-33 A cells significantly decreased miR-218-5p expression and increased PIK3C2A expression. Functional assays performed on C-33 A cells expressing E6 and E7 revealed that ectopic expression of miR-218-5p suppresses cell proliferation and migration, effects that are partially mediated by PIK3C2A. Bioinformatics analysis showed that low miR-218-5p expression and high PIK3C2A expression are associated with reduced overall survival in patients with cervical cancer. Our findings identify the miR-218-5p/PIK3C2A axis as a novel regulatory pathway modulated by HPV-16 oncoproteins E6 and E7 that contributes to CC cell proliferation and migration. Furthermore, miR-218-5p and PIK3C2A emerge as potential prognostic biomarkers in CC.
Myocardial ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury is a frequent complication of acute myocardial infarction (AMI), yet clinical biomarkers and targets remain limited. Although tRNA-derived small RNAs (tsRNAs) are emerging cardiovascular regulators, their roles in I/R injury are not fully elucidated. We identified tsRNA-3025a via sequencing in mouse I/R models and validated its clinical significance. Circulating tsRNA-3025a was significantly upregulated in AMI and unstable angina patients, independently predicting adverse events within 30 days. Functionally, tsRNA-3025a exacerbated apoptosis and mitochondrial dysfunction in vitro, while its in vivo silencing reduced infarct size, improved cardiac function and increased the proportion of Ki67- and pH3-positive cardiomyocytes. Mechanistically, tsRNA-3025a aggravated injury by targeting PIK3C2A, thereby suppressing autophagosome formation and impairing protective autophagic flux during reperfusion. In conclusion, circulating tsRNA-3025a serves as a prognostic biomarker for post-PCI patients. Targeting tsRNA-3025a attenuates myocardial I/R injury and restores myocardial regeneration and repair by regulating PIK3C2A-mediated protective autophagy flux.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most lethal cancers worldwide because of metastasis. The class II α-isoform of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PIK3C2A) was found to be a regulator in proliferation and migration of endothelial cells, but its role in cancer metastasis has less been evaluated. In this study we find it functions as a tumor suppressor. PIK3C2A was frequently down-regulated in human HCC cells and tissues. Low PIK3C2A expression correlated with elevated LRP6 phosphorylation, β-catenin nuclear accumulation, and Wnt/β-catenin hyperactivation in clinical HCC tissues. Low PIK3C2A predicted poor overall and disease-free survival and aggressive clinicopathological features. Loss of PIK3C2A significantly promoted HCC cells invasion and migration in vitro, and promoted tumor growth and metastasis in vivo. And these changed phenotypes by PIK3C2A knockdown in HCC cells could be rescued by exogenous expression of PIK3C2A. Mechanism studies demonstrated loss of PIK3C2A activated Wnt/β-catenin signaling dramatically. Further investigations showed loss of PIK3C2A gave rise to a decrease in phosphatidylinositol (3,4) bisphosphate (PI(3,4)P2) and an increase in phosphatidylinositol (4,5) bisphosphate (PI(4,5)P2), therefore promoting phosphorylation of low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 6 (LRP6). Moreover, the activated Wnt/β-catenin signaling and the significantly increased invasion and migration cells by loss of PIK3C2A were also markedly suppressed in various levels respectively by inhibiting LRP6 phosphorylation in diverse levels. Inhibiting LRP6 phosphorylation abolished PIK3C2A-mediated effects. Taken together, our results indicate PIK3C2A suppresses HCC metastasis by targeting Wnt/β-catenin signaling via inhibiting phosphorylation of LRP6, and can serve as a prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for HCC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Integration of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) DNA into the human genome is a critical event in nasopharyngeal carcinogenesis. Here, we comprehensively characterize large-scale virus-human integration events in three EBV-positive nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) cell lines and one patient NPC tumor using Nanopore long-read sequencing technology. We identified four distinct integration types, with Type A being particularly prevalent, characterized by the integration of a single fragment of the EBV genome followed by human DNA. Our findings reveal the involvement of multiple integration events in inducing inter-chromosomal translocations, leading to significant genomic disruption through chromosomal rearrangements. Additionally, we explore the relationship between EBV integration sites and structural variations, further supporting the role of EBV integration in driving genomic instability. By integrating RNA-seq data, we demonstrate the potential for EBV integration to disrupt gene expression, highlighting several integration sites within cancer-associated genes such as CD96, ARHGAP27, ASH1L, KDM3B, ZMYM2, and PIK3C2A. Notably, EBV-human fusion events were prevalent in EBV-associated NPCs, including intriguing fusion transcripts such as LRRC8C-RPMS1 and LINC00486-RPMS1, which provide further evidence of the oncogenic potential of EBV integration. Taken together, this study uncovers EBV integration patterns in Nasopharyngeal carcinogenesis using long-read sequencing technology.© 2026. The Author(s).
Intervertebral disc degeneration (IDD) is a prevalent disease with an increasing incidence, and aging is a key risk factor for its progression. Therefore, this study aimed to explore the role of aging-related genes in IDD through bioinformatics analysis. Differentially expressed aging-related genes were obtained from the CellAge, GSE150408 and GSE124272 datasets, followed by biomarker screening via machine learning. Finally, the identified biomarkers were validated using reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), Western Blot (WB), and immunohistochemistry (IHC) assays. A total of 33 aging-related differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were screened in IDD, and machine learning combined with ROC curve analysis identified PPM1D, PIK3C2A, and BTG3 as aging-related biomarkers for IDD; Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) revealed that these three biomarkers were enriched in gene functions including cellular senescence, multicellular organismal aging, negative regulation of cellular senescence, and Ribosome. In addition, the multifactorial regulatory network showed that transcription factor E2F1 and hsa-miR-147 co-regulated both PPM1D and BTG3. In experiments validating biomarker expression levels, BTG3 and PIK3C2A exhibited consistent expression trends across IHC, RT-qPCR, WB assays and the two datasets. BTG3 and PIK3C2A may play more critical roles in the progression of IDD, thereby providing novel insights for the development of new therapeutic strategies for IDD patients.© 2026. The Author(s).
As society ages, the prevalence of spinal degenerative diseases (SDDs) is rising, creating significant life and financial burdens for patients and their families. This study employs mendelian randomization (MR) to identify therapeutic targets for SDDs management. Two sample mendelian randomization (TSMR) analyses were conducted to investigate the causal relationships between multiple genes and various SDDs, including osteoporosis (OP), spinal canal stenosis (SCS), and prolapsed disc/slipped disc (PD/SD). To enhance the robustness of the findings, summary data-based MR (SMR) analyses were performed, complemented by Bayesian co-localization, which provided strong evidential support for the results. Additionally, the potential therapeutic applications were assessed through estimates of druggability. Our findings reveal several target genes linked to the risk of SDDs. Notably, ESR1 was positively and causally associated with the risk of osteoporosis (OR: 1.011, 95% CI: 1.008-1.016, PFDR = 2.41 × 10-8). Conversely, high expression of HTT was associated with a reduced risk of spinal canal stenosis (OR: 0.693, 95% CI: 0.589-0.816, PFDR = 1.06 × 10-5). Furthermore, high expression of PIK3C2A was linked to increased risk of spinal canal stenosis (OR: 1.086, 95% CI: 1.056-1.117, PFDR = 9.01 × 10-9). In conclusion, this study identifies several potential therapeutic targets related to SDDs and offers new insights for the development of therapeutic agents aimed at managing these conditions.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Oculoskeletodental syndrome (OCSKD) is a rare ciliopathy characterized by dysmorphic facial features, congenital cataracts, dental and skeletal anomalies, developmental delays, and strokes. PIK3C2A plays a crucial role in membrane trafficking and various intracellular signaling pathways by synthesizing lipid messengers. To date, only two studies describing four families have linked PIK3C2A loss-of-function variants to OCSKD, with limited functional analyses in primary cell lines.Patient selection, clinical phenotype reporting, and sample collection were conducted after obtaining written informed consent. Exome sequencing was performed to identify genetic variants potentially causative of the disease, and Sanger sequencing was used for segregation analysis. Functional studies were performed using primary cell lines from patients to characterize the identified candidate genetic variants.Here, we report an additional affected individual from a consanguineous family who presented with a similar expanded phenotype. Exome sequencing identified a novel homozygous nonsense variant of PIK3C2A (NM_002645.4: c.2177C>G: p. Ser726*). Functional analysis of the primary cell lines derived from the patient confirmed PIK3C2A protein knockout.Our findings provide a detailed clinical description, further expanding the phenotypic spectrum associated with this condition. We also provide a review of subjects' phenotypes reported to date with this condition.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
Oculoskeletodental syndrome (OCSKD) is a rare autosomal recessive ciliopathy caused by PIK3C2A loss-of-function variants, characterized by ocular, skeletal, and dental anomalies. Ocular findings most commonly include cataract and secondary glaucoma; however, high axial myopia and megalocornea have not been previously reported in the literature.We report a 2-year-old girl with OCSKD who presented with severe high axial myopia, bilateral megalocornea, lamellar cataracts, and developmental delay. Systemic evaluation revealed short stature and dental enamel hypoplasia. Clinical exome sequencing and whole mitochondrial genome sequencing identified a homozygous pathogenic variant in exon 8 PIK3C2A(NM_002645.4;ENST000000265970.11):c.1733_1736del(p.lle578LysfsTer3); NC_000011.10:g.17136594_17136597del [GRCh38]. The variant was classified as pathogenic and predicted to be damaging by MutationTaster2. Prenatal Sanger variant analysis testing of amniotic fluid in a fetus (to be the sibling of the index patient) showed the same variant in heterozygous form, confirming autosomal recessive inheritance.This case highlights phenotypic variability in PIK3C2A-related oculoskeletodental syndrome and raises the possibility of additional ocular involvement. Early molecular diagnosis enables accurate genetic counseling and supports targeted prenatal testing in affected families.
Objectives: Contrast-induced acute kidney injury (CIAKI) is a major cause of hospital-acquired renal injury, and strategies for its treatment are currently lacking. This study aimed to investigate the amelioration effect and mechanism of purpurin, a natural antioxidant, against CIAKI via an integrated analysis of network pharmacology, bioinformatics, molecular docking, and animal experiments. Methods: Network pharmacology approaches were used to predict key targets of purpurin against CIAKI. The differential expression of these key targets was further investigated using bioinformatics analysis and molecular binding with purpurin by molecular docking. A CIAKI model was established in SD rats via iohexol administration, and they were treated with 2.5 mg/kg or 5 mg/kg purpurin. Related physiological and pathological indexes were detected to explore the intervention mechanism. Results: Key gene targets were screened from protein-protein interaction networks, of which Pik3c2a, Esr1, Aktip, HSP90AA1, Bcl2, Caspase3, and SRC in the CIAKI group of GSE189881 were significantly differentially expressed compared to the control group. Molecular docking results show that PI3K, ESR1, HSP90, CASP3, AKTI, and SRC had the highest level of connectivity with purpurin. In vivo experiments demonstrated that the Scr and BUN increased in CIAKI rats, the pathological morphology of renal tissue deteriorated, the levels of TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6 increased, the contents of MOD and NO in oxidative stress increased, and the activity of SOD and GSH-PX decreased. After administration of purpurin, the above indexes improved in a dose-dependent manner (<0.05). Western blotting showed that purpurin inhibited the Beclin1/Bcl-2/caspase-3 apoptotic cascade and induced the P62/LC3 autophagy pathway. Conclusions: This study provides experimental evidence supporting purpurin as a potential therapeutic agent for CIAKI and further explores its antioxidant mechanisms.
Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is a malignancy with poor prognosis and survival. While epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is a known driver of HNSCC, EGFR inhibitors show limited efficacy as monotherapies, suggesting that effective combination therapies are needed.We performed GeCKO and Kinase CRISPR library screens to identify candidate knockouts that increase EGFR inhibitor sensitivity in resistant HNSCC cells. We validated a candidate using the CellTiter-Glo viability assay following RNA interference and investigated the mechanisms using apoptosis and cell cycle flow cytometry analysis.Kinase CRISPR library screens identified that PIK3C2A gene downregulation enhanced EGFR inhibitor sensitivity in resistant HNSCC cells. Viability assays further validated that PIK3C2A knockdown overcame EGFR inhibitor resistance in HNSCC cells.Our data suggests that PIK3C2A is a novel mediator of EGFR inhibitor resistance in HNSCC. Future studies are required to determine the mechanisms by which PIK3C2A drives EGFR inhibitor resistance.© 2025 The Author(s). Head & Neck published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Cashmere production declines with age in Inner Mongolian cashmere goats, but the molecular mechanisms are unknown. This study employed a transcriptome-wide RNA-seq analysis to compare age-associated and breed-related gene expression profiles in goat skin, with particular emphasis on age-dependent AKT1 expression and its associated signaling pathways. Skin tissues from cashmere goats at 12 and 15 months and age-matched non-cashmere controls were analyzed by RNA-seq (BGIDNBSEQ platform). Differential expression and functional enrichment analyses were performed on skin transcriptomes of cashmere and control goats at 12 and 15 months. Age-specific functional profiles emerged: 12-month cashmere goats showed enrichment in GTPase activity, glucose transport, and ribosomal assembly, whereas 15-month goats were enriched for autophagosome assembly and apoptosis. FoxO signaling was commonly enriched across both ages, while the Hepatitis B pathway was unique to 12 months. AKT1 was significantly upregulated at 12 months coinciding with peak cashmere production with reduced expression at 15 months. This age-dependent pattern was supported by coordinated regulation of downstream effectors, including TSC2, PIK3R2, MAPK9, and FOXO3. Collectively, these transcriptomic data provide a mechanistic framework linking age-dependent AKT1 regulation to the decline in cashmere fiber production.
Preeclampsia (PE) is a severe pregnancy complication that endangers maternal and fetal health. Accumulating evidence indicates that miR-126-3p is aberrantly expressed in PE placentas, yet its specific regulatory mechanism remains poorly defined. In the present study, we confirmed that miR-126-3p was significantly upregulated in placental tissues from PE patients. Functional assays demonstrated that overexpression of miR-126-3p suppressed proliferation, migration and invasion of HTR-8/SVneo trophoblast cells, and induced cell apoptosis, while miR-126-3p knockdown exerted opposite effects. Dual-luciferase reporter assay verified that miR-126-3p directly targeted PIK3R. Further mechanism experiments revealed that miR-126-3p inactivated the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. Intervention with PI3K agonist and inhibitor further validated that miR-126-3p modulated trophoblast biological behaviors dependent on the PI3K/AKT pathway. In conclusion, elevated miR-126-3p contributes to the development and progression of PE via inhibiting the PI3K/AKT pathway through targeting PIK3R2. This work provides a novel molecular mechanism and potential therapeutic target for PE.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Chemotherapy resistance remains a critical hurdle in advanced prostate cancer (PCa). Succinylation, an essential post-translational modification linking cellular metabolism with epigenetic regulation, has been implicated in tumour progression; however, its contribution to PCa chemoresistance remains poorly defined.This study aimed to evaluate the prognostic significance of succinylation in PCa, develop a succinylation-based biomarker, and elucidate the mechanisms driving chemotherapy resistance.We generated a succinylation score (SS) by applying single-sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA) to transcriptomic profiles from the TCGA-PRAD cohort. Its relationships with survival, the tumour microenvironment (TME), and treatment susceptibility were examined using CIBERSORT, GSEA, TIDE, oncoPredict, and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq). Findings were functionally validated in patient-derived organoids, PCa cell lines, and xenograft models through genetic manipulation, chemosensitivity assays, and mechanistic studies.High SS correlated with favourable prognosis, lower Gleason scores, absent lymph node metastasis, and an immune-active TME enriched in CD8+ precursor exhausted T cells. High-SS tumours showed enhanced sensitivity to docetaxel and cisplatin. scRNA‑seq identified KAT2A as a key driver in low‑SS malignant clusters with chemoresistance features. KAT2A was elevated in chemoresistant tissues, cell lines, and organoids. KAT2A knockout sensitised cells to chemotherapy, while ectopic expression promoted resistance in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, KAT2A-mediated succinylation of PIK3R2 at K477 and K564 inhibited its ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation, stabilising PIK3R2 to drive chemoresistance. The KAT2A inhibitor Butyrolactone 3 synergised with standard chemotherapy to suppress tumour growth.The succinylation score serves as a robust prognostic biomarker integrating metabolic and immunological features in PCa. The KAT2A-PIK3R2 succinylation pathway represents a newly defined driver of chemoresistance and points to MB-3-based combination therapy as a potential strategy for resistant advanced disease.A transcriptome-based succinylation score (SS) stratifies prostate cancer by prognosis, immune contexture, and chemotherapy sensitivity. KAT2A is enriched in low-SS, chemoresistant tumours and promotes resistance by succinylating PIK3R2. KAT2A-mediated succinylation competitively inhibits PIK3R2 ubiquitination, stabilising PIK3R2 and driving chemoresistance. The KAT2A inhibitor MB-3 synergises with chemotherapy to suppress tumour growth in both chemoresistant and chemosensitive models.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical and Translational Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Shanghai Institute of Clinical Bioinformatics.
Neodymium oxide (Nd2O3), a rare-earth oxide, has been shown to induce lung fibrosis. Our previous research indicated that glycolysis plays a key role in the occurrence and development of lung fibrosis following exposure to Nd2O3. Nevertheless, the role of lactate-mediated histone lactylation, a metabolic product of glycolysis, in lung fibrosis remains unclear. In the present study, we used a co-culture model of macrophage-like cells (THP-M) treated with Nd2O3 and human embryonic lung fibroblasts (HELF). We found that Nd2O3 significantly increases glycolytic activity, lactate production, and global protein lactylation (pan-Kla), particularly the lactylation of histone H4 at lysine 12 (H4K12la) in macrophages. Chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing and chromatin immunoprecipitation-quantitative polymerase chain reaction showed that lactylation modification in the promoter region of the phosphoinositide-3-kinase regulatory subunit 2 (PIK3R2) gene in macrophages was significantly enriched. This enrichment was accompanied by upregulation of PIK3R2, activation of the PI3K/Akt/mTOR-signaling pathway, and increased secretion of transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1). Further experiments showed that knockdown of PIK3R2 reversed the Nd2O3-induced profibrotic phenotype in macrophages, thereby significantly inhibiting TGF-β1 secretion and fibroblast activation and proliferation. Treatment with 2-deoxy-d-glucose (2-DG) inhibited glycolytic lactate production in THP-M cells, leading to reductions in overall histone lactylation, H4K12la levels, PIK3R2 expression, and TGF-β1 secretion. In addition, 2-DG also suppressed the PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway and reversed fibrosis. Altogether, our findings reveal the role of histone lactylation in Nd2O3-induced macrophage-fibroblast interactions and elucidate the molecular mechanism underlying the regulation of PIK3R2 expression by H4K12 lactylation. This regulation, in turn, activates the PI3K/Akt/mTOR-signaling pathway and the fibrotic process, thus providing novel potential epigenetic targets for the prevention and treatment of lung fibrosis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Prostate cancer often reaches bone, which poses a challenge in orthopedic oncology since few therapies directly suppress tumor growth in bone. Bruceine D (BD) is a quassinoid from Brucea javanica. It is known anticancer activity but its effects on prostate cancer have not been defined.In this paper, we studied BD's drug effects on PC-3 and C4-2B prostate cancer cells using CCK-8, colony formation, wound healing, and Transwell assays. We measured apoptosis by Annexin V-FITC/PI staining and flow cytometry. RNA sequencing, Western Blotting and molecular docking were used to identify signaling pathways and potential targets. We evaluated BD's antitumor effects and toxicities in a subcutaneous xenograft model in nude mice.BD inhibited proliferation, migration, invasion and induced apoptosis in prostate cancer cells in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Transcriptomic analysis showed BD downregulated PI3K/AKT pathway components (PIK3AP1, PIK3C2B, PIK3CB, PIK3R2, AKT1) and CXCL16. Western blotting showed decreased expression of p-PI3K, p-AKT, PCNA, MMP9, CXCL16, BCL-2 and BAX. Molecular docking predicted favorable binding to these targets. BD (0,0.7 mg/kg) reduced tumor volume by 87.4% without liver/kidney toxicity, and reduced Ki-67, PCNA, MMP9, CXCL16 in tumors.BD reduced prostate cancer growth and motility by inhibiting PI3K/AKT signaling and concomitantly downregulating CXCL16, and showed anti-tumor activity in a subcutaneous xenograft model with good safety. These results provide mechanistic information on skeletal metastasis in orthopedic oncology. Dedicated bone metastasis models need to be evaluated.Copyright © 2026 Chen, Huang, Zheng, Garu, LingHu, Yu, Zhao, Zhang, Tian, Tang, Huang and Zhao.
PI3K complex consists of catalytic subunit p110s and regulatory subunit p85s. Emerging evidence indicates that p110-free p85 subunits play pivotal roles in diverse biological processes, including cancer progression. In this study, we demonstrate the underlying mechanism of p110-free p85β in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) development. PIK3R2/p85β is upregulated in HCC and correlates with poor patient survival. Nuclear p85β, but not its cytoplasmic counterpart, exhibits oncogenic activity. In the nucleus of HCC cells, p85β undergoes liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS) and specifically accumulates in the fibrillar centers of nucleoli, where it drives HCC progression. Within the nucleolar compartment, p85β interacts with and stabilizes POLR1A, the catalytic core subunit of RNA polymerase I, thereby enhancing rRNA biosynthesis and maintaining HCC stemness. Furthermore, we develop an engineered circular RNA that encodes a peptide containing p110α ABD domain, which effectively suppresses HCC tumor growth by simultaneously disrupting p85β/POLR1A condensates and inhibiting PI3K/AKT signaling pathway, offering a novel RNA-based therapeutic strategy against HCC.© The author(s).
Host genetic factors may contribute to COVID-19 severity. To identify genetic variants influencing COVID-19 severity progression, whole-exome sequencing was performed, followed by an exome-wide association study on 191 hospitalized patients categorized into three severity groups. The analysis identified nine loci surpassing the suggestive significance threshold (p ≤ 3 × 10-4): rs2180196 (β = 2.09, TGM1-RABGGTA), rs2236232 (β = -1.37, PLEKHH1), rs7886938 (β = 1.66, FMO6P), rs2929047 (β = -1.16, XKR4), rs9841237 (β = 1.21, SI), rs34357454 (β = 1.92, NID2), rs1005887 (β = 1.28, DUSP18), rs2281880 (β = -1.11, SUFU), and rs73061693 (β = 1.66, TULP2). Furthermore, binomial exact test identified 218 SNPs in COVID-19-related genes with significant allele frequency differences between severity groups, including 61 novel variants. Of those 218, co-occurring SNP pairs were identified within specific severity groups, including pairs in JAK1-PIK3R2 in critical patients and eight pairs in genes IL6, SERPINE1, COL5A1, MAPK14, FREM1, C7, GLS, ATP5PO, and RPL7 in severe patients. Clinical data analysis confirmed known risk factors like older age in men and specific comorbidities and revealed distinct therapeutic and biochemical profiles across severity groups. This study confirms known genetic risks and reveals novel variants, providing a more detailed basis for understanding COVID-19 pathogenesis and for developing genetic diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Medical Virology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
The fat mass and obesity-associated gene (FTO) has been shown to play a critical role in fat deposition in both humans and livestock. However, its involvement in subcutaneous and intramuscular fat deposition in chickens remains underexplored. In this study, we investigated the regulatory effects and pathways of FTO on subcutaneous and intramuscular fat deposition in chickens through functional gene verification and bioinformatics analysis. Our results demonstrated that, compared to the control group, exogenous transfection of an FTO lentiviral overexpression vector significantly inhibited cell proliferation and increased lipid accumulation in both subcutaneous and intramuscular adipocytes (p < 0.05). Furthermore, transfection of FTO siRNA markedly increased cell proliferation and reduced lipid accumulation in both subcutaneous and intramuscular adipocytes. A total of 413 and 164 differentially expressed genes were regulated by FTO in subcutaneous and intramuscular adipocytes, respectively. Pathway analysis revealed that the regulation of the actin cytoskeleton was a key process involved in FTO-mediated fat deposition in both subcutaneous and intramuscular adipocytes. Additionally, NRAS and ITGAV (subcutaneous fat), as well as FGF9, PIK3R2, FGF16, and RHOA (intramuscular fat), were identified as key genes enriched in this pathway. In conclusion, FTO differentially regulates fat deposition in chicken subcutaneous and intramuscular adipocytes by targeting distinct functional genes within the actin cytoskeleton pathway.
Lupus nephritis (LN) is a critical manifestation in systemic lupus erythematosus. However, there has been little progress in treatment outcomes, and the discovery of robust and clinically relevant molecular subtypes would be informative for guiding stratified therapy for LN. Glomerular transcriptomic datasets of LN were obtained from publicly repositories. We investigate the molecular heterogeneity of LN by analyzing renal glomerular transcriptomic data from 135 patients with LN using integrated optimal algorithms and propose a refined two-molecular subtype scheme for LN (designated GC1 and GC2). GC1 represents an active form of LN enriched by IFN signaling pathways, Fc receptor-mediated signals, and neutrophil activation-associated processes. In contrast, GC2 is a subset characterized by class A/1 (rhodopsin-like) and B cell (BC) receptor signaling pathways. The communication probability by receptor-ligand pairs is highly scored between BCs, CD4+ T cells and macrophages/monocytes. Proteinuria and renal insufficiency were more significant in GC1. We identified PIK3R2 as a hidden regulator in the disease module, and inhibition of PI3K subunits showed promising efficacy in counteracting altered molecular signatures in an active state of LN. The proposed two-molecular subtype scheme offers novel insights into the divergent mechanistic features of LN and represents a critical step toward precision medicine for LN.Copyright © 2026. The Korean Association of Immunologists.
Type 2 diabetes (T2DM), a chronic metabolic disorder characterized by pancreatic β-cell dysfunction and insulin resistance, is closely associated with oxidative stress. Interferon-stimulated gene 15 (ISG15), a ubiquitin-like modifier, has been implicated in redox regulation; however, its mechanistic role in T2DM progression remains unclear. To identify novel bio-factors contributing to T2DM, peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and serum samples were collected from T2DM patients and age-/BMI-matched healthy controls to quantify ISG15 expression. Complementary studies utilized a T2DM mouse model to assess β-cell-specific ISG15 expression within pancreatic islets. In parallel, MIN6 pancreatic β-cells were exposed to pathophysiological stressors, including hyperglycemic/hyperlipidemic (HG/PG) conditions and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-induced oxidative stress, to mimic the diabetic microenvironment. Protein-protein interactions were evaluated, and functional analyses were conducted following ISG15 genetic ablation. The results demonstrated that ISG15 expression was significantly elevated in PBMCs and serum from T2DM patients compared to healthy controls. Similarly, T2DM mouse models exhibited marked upregulation of ISG15 in islet β-cells. In vitro, exposure to HG/PG or H2O2 increased ISG15 levels, reduced MIN6 cell viability, and heightened reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation. Mechanistic studies revealed that ISG15 directly interacts with the PI3K regulatory subunit PIK3R2, suppressing its activity and thereby disrupting the PI3K/AKT/Nrf2 antioxidant signaling axis. This disruption led to exacerbated oxidative stress. Collectively, these findings indicate that ISG15 acts as a novel mediator of oxidative stress in T2DM by targeting and inhibiting the PIK3R2-dependent PI3K/AKT/Nrf2 pathway. These results uncover a previously unrecognized molecular mechanism driving β-cell dysfunction and identify ISG15 as a potential therapeutic target for mitigating oxidative damage in diabetes.© 2026 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by dopaminergic neuron loss, motor dysfunction, and Lewy body formation. Src homology 2B adaptor protein 2 (SH2B2), a member of the SH2B family with known roles in neuroregulation, has not been fully explored in PD. This study aimed to investigate the neuroprotective effects and mechanisms of SH2B2 in PD. MPTP-induced mouse model and MPP+-treated SH-SY5Y cell model were established to simulate PD in vivo and in vitro. Mice were randomly divided into saline, MPTP, MPTP + OE-NC, and MPTP + OE-SH2B2 groups, while SH-SY5Y cells were randomly grouped into control, MPP+, MPP+ + OE-NC, and MPP+ + OE-SH2B2. Behavioral tests, Nissl staining, IHC, CCK-8, flow cytometry, qRT-PCR, and Western blot were used to assess outcomes. Our findings indicated that SH2B2 was downregulated in MPTP-induced mice and MPP+-treated SH-SY5Y cells (P < 0.01). Overexpressing SH2B2 improved motor function in mice (evidenced by the prolonged rotarod and wire hang latencies and shortened pole climbing time (P < 0.01)), upregulated TH expression (P < 0.001), downregulated IBA1 levels (P < 0.001), and alleviated dopaminergic neuron atrophy and Nissl body loss (P < 0.001). In SH-SY5Y cells, overexpressing SH2B2 reversed MPP+-induced cell viability reduction and apoptosis (P < 0.05). This study confirmed SH2B2 downregulation in PD models and demonstrated that overexpressing SH2B2 alleviates dopaminergic neuron injury and neuroinflammation, improving motor function. Therefore, SH2B2 emerges as a novel neuroprotective factor and potential therapeutic target for PD, warranting further research into its molecular mechanisms for clinical translation.Copyright © 2026 International Brain Research Organization (IBRO). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Both epidemiological and Mendelian randomization (MR) studies have confirmed the association between smoking and psychiatric disorders, yet the underlying mechanism remains poorly understood. To address this gap, this study aimed to evaluate causal relationships between smoking, brain structural alterations, and psychiatric disorders and to identify genetic and neuroimaging mediators. We analysed summary data from the genome-wide association study (GWAS) and multimodal neuroimaging data, using linkage disequilibrium score regression (LDSC) to quantify genetic correlations and two-sample bidirectional MR to assess causality between smoking and three psychiatric disorders: schizophrenia (SCZ), major depressive disorder (MDD) and bipolar disorder (BD). Additionally, we conducted mediation analysis to identify brain structural mediators and colocalization and pathway analyses to elucidate shared genetic architecture. LDSC analysis revealed significant genetic correlations between smoking and MDD (rg = 0.41), SCZ (rg = 0.16) and BD (rg = 0.15). Consistently, bidirectional MR confirmed a bidirectional causal relationship between smoking and SCZ/MDD and a unidirectional causal effect of smoking on BD. Mediation analysis further revealed that microstructural disorganization in the left uncinate fasciculus mediated 19.6% (95% CI: 3.36%-35.8%) of the effect of smoking on MDD risk. Moreover, colocalization analysis implicated SH2B2 as a pleiotropic locus linking UF orientation dispersion (OD) to prefrontal-amygdala gene expression, suggesting that smoking may exacerbate corticolimbic dysfunction by inducing SH2B2 hypermethylation. Taken together, our findings establish smoking as a causal risk factor for SCZ, MDD and BD, with corticolimbic white matter degeneration serving as a key mediator, and they highlight the SH2B2-TrkB axis as a mechanistic conduit for genetic and environmental risk, pointing to therapeutic targets to disrupt smoking related psychiatric disorders.© 2025 The Author(s). Addiction Biology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Society for the Study of Addiction.
Periodontitis, a chronic inflammatory disease of periodontal tissues, is linked to immune response and epigenetic modifications, with DNA methylation playing a crucial role. This study integrates transcriptomic and DNA methylation profiles from periodontitis patients to explore the immune microenvironment and identify potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets.Transcriptomic and methylation profiles from 24 periodontitis patients were analyzed to evaluate the immune microenvironment and identify related abnormal genes. WGCNA was used to identify immune cell-associated genes. Subsequently, machine learning algorithms identified diagnostic biomarkers for periodontitis, which then validated in two cohorts with 247 and 310 periodontitis patients, respectively. Finally, network pharmacology analysis identified potential targeted drugs for the candidate genes.We obtained 23,528 differentially methylated sites and 1,641 differential expressed genes. Immune cell analysis identified eight abnormal cell types in periodontitis, and WGCNA highlighted two gene modules linked to these immune alterations. Machine learning with random forest and SVM identified nine key genes (ATP2C2, FAM43B, FOXA3, HSPA12A, KIF1C, NCS1, PGM1, RASSF6, SH2B2) with diagnostic efficacy, achieving high AUC scores across validation datasets. Network pharmacology analysis identified three drugs-bisphenol A, acetaminophen, and valproic acid-as potential regulators of these genes, offering new treatment avenues.Through integrating s transcriptomic and DNA methylation profiles, nine genes have been filtered as potential diagnostic biomarkers of periodontitis. Drugs targeting these genes may serve as potential therapeutics for periodontitis. These findings reveal valuable insights into immune and epigenetic mechanisms in periodontitis, presenting new biomarkers and therapeutic options that may enhance clinical diagnosis and treatment of the disease and provide unique insights for further exploration of the pathogenesis of periodontitis and the development of related therapeutic drugs.Copyright © 2025 Jin, Yuan and Liu.
The SH2B family, which includes SH2B1, SH2B2, and SH2B3, consists of adaptor proteins that possess conserved Src homology 2 (SH2) and pleckstrin homology (PH) domains, playing essential roles as signaling mediators. However, the gene expression patterns of this family during embryonic development are still mostly unclear. In this study, we first investigated the evolutionary conservation of SH2B across multiple species using phylogenetic analysis, which revealed high sequence homology between zebrafish Sh2b and its orthologs in other vertebrates. Subsequently, we examined the expression patterns of sh2b during zebrafish embryogenesis through whole mount in situ hybridization. The findings revealed that all sh2b genes are expressed during the early developmental stages of zebrafish embryos, with a significant concentration in the brain, eyes, and spinal cord. Additionally, sh2b1 was found to be expressed in the lateral line neuromast (lln) support cells. In conclusion, our results suggest that the sh2b family is mainly localized in the brain and eyes, with sh2b1 specifically expressed in the lln support cells. This study offers important insights into the role of the sh2b family in zebrafish embryonic development.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Managing Ductal Carcinoma in Situ (DCIS) remains challenging due to the lack of reliable biomarkers to predict radiotherapy (RT) response, leading to both overtreatment of indolent disease and undertreatment of aggressive cases.Through whole-exome sequencing of 147 DCIS cases, we characterized the genomic landscape of pure DCIS and identified genetic alterations associated with the risk of recurrence, either in-situ or invasive. DCIS lesions harbored frequent mutations in established cancer drivers (PIK3CA, TP53) and genes regulating tissue architecture, which likely enhanced pre-invasive cell fitness but lacked prognostic value. A subset of younger patients exhibited distinct mutational processes characterized by high mutational burden, though these were not linked to recurrence risk. Across the cohort, five mostly mutually exclusive genes (SH2B2, PDZD8, MYO7A, MUCL3, DNASE2B), involved in cell adhesion, membrane organization, and DNA degradation, were significantly associated with 10-year risk of local recurrence. In RT-treated patients, we identified 27 additional mutated genes uniquely associated with recurrence, along with SH2B2 and MUCL3. Most of these genes were involved in cytoskeletal regulation, cell adhesion, and cell-environment interactions. Mutations in metabolic regulators (MGAM2 and AADACL3) and REV1, which mediates DNA damage tolerance, may impair cellular responses to RT-induced stress. Notably, we identified distinct genes prognostic for in-situ versus invasive recurrence: nineteen genes predominantly involved in tissue structural maintenance in in-situ relapse, and thirteen genes primarily affecting cell-cycle and genome-stability pathways in invasive progression. Copy number analyses revealed that pure DCIS exhibits molecular subtype-specific patterns characteristic of invasive disease, with novel alterations associated with recurrence, including three non-adjacent gains and five losses in regions harboring oncogenes, tumor suppressor genes, and genes regulating structural integrity, cell-cell adhesion and interactions.While TP53, PIK3CA, and recurrent copy number alterations represent early events in tumorigenesis, they lack prognostic value in pure DCIS, underscoring the need for alternative biomarkers. Our findings identify key genetic alterations associated with local recurrence and RT resistance. We further uncovered distinct molecular programs underlying in-situ versus invasive recurrence, with mutations affecting tissue structural maintenance in in-situ relapse and cell-cycle/genome-stability pathways in invasive progression.© 2025. The Author(s).
Dietary supplementation for beef cattle, using natural plant extracts, such as oregano essential oil (OEO), has proven effective in enhancing growth performance, beef production quantity and quality, and ensuring food safety. However, the precise mechanisms underlying these effects remain unclear. This study investigated the impact of OEO on carcass traits, muscle fiber structure, meat quality, oxidative status, flavor compounds, and gene regulatory mechanisms in the longissimus thoracis (LT) muscles of beef cattle. Eighteen steers were randomly assigned to two groups (n = 9 per group) and fed either a control diet (CK) or the same diet supplemented with 20 g of OEO per head per day for 300 days.Oregano essential oil supplementation improved the body weight, carcass weight, meat production, area and diameter of fiber, ether extract, and water-holding power of muscle. Increasing catalase (CAT), peroxidases (POD), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and by decreasing lipid droplets (LDs) reduced muscle lipid oxidation. However, the color (L*, a*, b*, C* and H°) and the flavor compounds of muscle were affected adversely by OEO. The transcriptome and metabolome indicated the OEO group enriched fat synthesis, proteo-metabolism, antioxidants, and growth significantly. Five key genes (SH2B2, CD209, LOC504773, C1QC, and HMOX) and ten downregulated metabolites (deoxyguanosine, d-melezitose, maltotriose, raffinose, melatonin, quinic acid, orotic acid, hydrocinnamic acid, 2-methylsuccinic acid, and pyridoxal 5'-phosphate) were identified as key biomarkers. These interacted to positively influence the growth, oxidative status, and meat quality of steers positively.These findings suggest that OEO, as a natural bioactive compound, can serve as an additive for beef cattle, with a daily dose of 20 g per steer improving growth and meat quality, although it may affect muscle color and flavor negatively. © 2025 Society of Chemical Industry.© 2025 Society of Chemical Industry.
SH2B adaptor protein 2 (SH2B2, also named APS) is an adaptor protein implicated in the modulation of insulin signaling pathways and glucose metabolism. Its role in colon adenocarcinoma (COAD) is unknown.Data from The Cancer Genome Atlas and Gene Expression Omnibus database were utilized to assess SH2B2 expression and its clinical significance in COAD. We investigated the associations between SH2B2 expression with genomic instability, tumor mutational burden (TMB), DNA methylation, alternative splicing, immune infiltration, and drug sensitivity. A SH2B2 knockdown model was developed to examine its impact on COAD cellular functions.Highly expressed SH2B2 is associated with a poorer prognosis in COAD. SH2B2 expression in COAD is associated with copy number variations, microsatellite instability, methylation patterns, and alternative 5' splicing events, but not with TMB. SH2B2 is positively correlated with mostly immune cells and the expression of PD-1 and CTLA4. The IC50 values of ten drugs were significantly correlated with SH2B2 expression. BI-2536_1086 had a strong binding affinity with SH2B2. Furthermore, the knockdown of SH2B2 reduced the proliferation, migration, and invasion of COAD cells.SH2B2 appears to act as an oncogene in COAD and may serve as a pivotal prognostic and therapeutic target, deserving further exploration.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
The germinal centers (GCs) are structure found within secondary lymphoid organs and are important for the antibody-producing response against foreign antigens. In GCs, antigen-specific B cells proliferate intensely, inducing immunoglobulin class switching. Recent studies have shown that GCs are also an important site for class switching to IgE, which is implicated in allergy. However, the mechanisms by which IgE production is regulated in GCs remain unclear. Here, we found impairment in IgE-specific production and a reduction of GC B cells after immunization in mice deficient in the Aps/Sh2b2 gene encoding the Lnk/Sh2b family adaptor protein Aps. GC B cells express higher levels of the Aps gene than non-GC B cells, and cell death of Aps-/- GC B cells is enhanced compared to wild-type GC B cells. An in vitro culture system with purified Aps-/- B cells induced the same level of IgE production and frequencies of IgE+ B cells as wild-type B cells. We found that Aps deficiency in B cells resulted in augmented depletion of IgE+ blasts by B cell receptor crosslinking with anti-CD79b antibodies compared to wild-type IgE+ cells. These results suggest that Aps regulates IgE production by controlling the survival of GC B cells and IgE+ plasma cells and may serve as a potential therapeutic target to control IgE production.© 2024. The Author(s).
The phenotypic diversity resulting from artificial or natural selection of sheep has made a significant contribution to human civilization. Hu sheep are a local sheep breed unique to China with high reproductive rates and rapid growth. Genomic selection signatures have been widely used to investigate the genetic mechanisms underlying phenotypic variation in livestock. Here, we conduct whole-genome sequencing of 207 Hu sheep and compare them with the wild ancestors of domestic sheep (Asiatic mouflon) to investigate the genetic characteristics and selection signatures of Hu sheep. Based on six signatures of selection approaches, we detect genomic regions containing genes related to reproduction (BMPR1B, BMP2, PGFS, CYP19, CAMK4, GGT5, and GNAQ), vision (ALDH1A2, SAG, and PDE6B), nervous system (NAV1), and immune response (GPR35, SH2B2, PIK3R3, and HRAS). Association analysis with a population of 1299 Hu sheep reveals that those missense mutations in the GPR35 (GPR35 g.952651 A>G; GPR35 g.952496 C>T) and NAV1 (NAV1 g.84216190 C>T; NAV1 g.84227412 G>A) genes are significantly associated (P < 0.05) with immune and growth traits in Hu sheep, respectively. This research offers unique insights into the selection characteristics of Hu sheep and facilitates further genetic improvement and molecular investigations.Copyright © 2024 Institute of Genetics and Developmental Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, and Genetics Society of China. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This bioinformatics study aimed to identify ETV4 transcription factor oncogenes and outline anticancer drugs for these genes. First, we collected known 61 ETV4 cancer targets that were framed as two classes of queries to screen against the multiomics resources in GeneMANIA. This method accessed and added functionally similar 20 genes to each set. These data were interpreted by hub genes, network clustering, gene ontology, and pathway analyses, and the results confirmed that all resultant genes were cancer promoters. The ETS-binding motifs were identified from the promoter regions of these genes. Thus, 23 ETV4 targets were figured and those involved in oncogenesis were filtered as the following 16 putative nodes: MMP8, MMP14, KDR, BRIP1, CXCR1, GRB14, SHC2, SHC4, SH2B1, SH2B2, INPPL1, PTPN3, GNG12, SEMA4D, RHOA, and SPSB2. The transcriptional regulation of these oncogenes was coordinated by an extensive miRNA network that found to deregulate many cancer pathways. Using DgIb database, the high quality 6 oncogene-drug combinations (MMP8-CHEMBL1231240, MMP8-Aminomethylamide, CXCR1-Reparixin, SEMA4D-Pepinemab, RHOA-Clausine E, and SPSB2-CHEMBL175296) were proposed. These findings may advance our understanding of novel neoplastic gene nexus of ETV4 and design treatment strategies for its modulation.© 2021 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42067992 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 41642494 is a review article
Background: Inflammation is essential for skeletal muscle repair following acute injury, and successful muscle regeneration requires a balance between pro- and anti-inflammatory signaling. Estrogen regulates inflammatory responses, suggesting a role in tissue repair. CD169+ macrophages are also associated with tissue repair. However, these cells and related interferon-inducible genes have not been investigated in regenerating muscle. Objective: To examine how 17β-estradiol treatment influences the expression and co-expression network of Siglec1 (encoding CD169), an interferon-inducible gene, during muscle regeneration. Methods: Ovariectomized mice received either 17β-estradiol or placebo before undergoing a standardized crush injury to hindlimb muscle groups and exposure to simulated flight. Mice were euthanized at 32-h, 96-h, or 192-h postinjury. Differential gene expression analysis was performed on injured muscles to assess treatment-related transcriptional changes, and additional muscles were evaluated for regeneration stage and CD169 protein expression. Results: At 192-h postinjury, Siglec1 was among the top upregulated genes in 17β-estradiol-treated mice relative to placebo mice, which reflected a decline in Siglec1 expression over time in the placebo group. Correlation analysis revealed that Siglec1 was strongly associated with interferon-related genes under placebo treatment, whereas the connectivity of Siglec1 under 17β-estradiol treatment was weakened. Immunohistochemistry confirmed stronger CD169 staining in regenerating muscle of 17β-estradiol-treated mice. Conclusion: Siglec1 expression is more stable in an estrogen state compared to an ovarian-hormone-deficient state. Understanding how estrogen deficiency alters inflammatory signaling after muscle injury may inform interventions to promote recovery in postmenopausal women, who may be at risk for impaired muscle repair.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is intricately influenced by dysregulated microRNAs (miRNAs) targeting the Wnt signaling pathway, a phenomenon pivotal in CRC initiation and progression. The exploration of miRNA-Wnt interactions holds promise for innovative therapeutic strategies in CRC treatment.a comprehensive list of genes influenced by dysregulated miRNAs targeting the Wnt pathway was compiled. High-scoring genes from the miRDB database underwent further analysis. Protein-protein interaction networks were constructed using Cytoscape and StringApp 2.0, with hub proteins identified through MCC, MNC, DMNC, and Degree algorithms. Gene ontology, KEGG enrichment analysis, CytoCluster, and promoter motif analysis were employed to characterize gene functions, associations, dysregulated clusters, and regulatory elements.Protein-protein interaction networks unveiled 15 central hub proteins, including EP300, , NRAS, NF1, CCND1, SMAD4, SOCS7, SOCS6, NECAP1, MBTD1, ACVR1C, ESR1, CREBBP, and PIK3CA. Gene ontology and KEGG analysis revealed their involvement in critical biological processes, cellular components, and molecular functions. CytoCluster analysis identified dysregulated miRNA-targeted gene clusters linked to cancer-related pathways. Promoter motif analysis provided insights into regulatory elements governing hub protein expression.The identified hub proteins, enriched in cancer-related pathways, offer potential therapeutic targets. These findings pave the way for future research, enhancing our ability to develop targeted interventions for improved outcomes in CRC treatment.
To investigate the response of the suppressor of the cytokine signaling (socs) gene family in rainbow trout following exposure to microplastics, this study conducted a bioinformatics analysis of the socs gene family using rainbow trout genome data, complemented by experiments involving microplastic exposure and gene expression detection.The findings revealed that the rainbow trout SOCS gene family comprises 27 members, encoding proteins with lengths ranging from 110 to 837 amino acids. Analyses of motifs, domains, and gene structures indicate that members of this family are highly conserved. RNA sequencing data demonstrated that, following microplastic exposure, the expression levels of socs1, socs2, socs3, socs5, socs6, socs7, and cish in the liver, intestine, and brain tissues of rainbow trout underwent significant changes. Additionally, RT-qPCR results indicated that the expression levels of several socs genes were down-regulated, whereas socs1a, socs1b, socs7a1, socs7b1, and socs7b2 exhibited significant up-regulation. These genes may play crucial roles in the response to microplastic exposure in rainbow trout.This study elucidates the involvement of the socs gene family members in the context of microplastic exposure, providing valuable insights into the underlying toxicological mechanisms and enhancing our understanding of the threats posed by plastic pollution to freshwater organisms.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Gut microbiota modulation has recently been identified as a prospective avenue for the exploration of novel therapeutic strategies for the management of gout. Nevertheless, the application of a single specific strain or bacterial metabolite for gout intervention has rarely been explored and the underlying regulatory mechanism remains elusive.To ascertain the potential role and the molecular mechanism of Clostridium butyricum and butyrate in the management of gouty arthritis.A Uox-KO mouse model of gouty arthritis was developed and the composition of the gut microbiota was analyzed. C. butyricum and butyrate were supplemented to assess functional recovery and intestinal homeostasis. NanoString analysis identified miRNA variations. GC/MS measured butyric acid levels and qPCR detected the abundance of butyrate-producing enzymes and bacteria. Flow cytometry analyzed macrophage polarization and ELISA measured pro-inflammatory cytokine production. Agomir and antagomir were transfected and dual-luciferase reporter assay was adapted for validation of miRNA target binding. siRNA and rescue experiments were performed to validate the role of SOCS7 in macrophage polarization. In addition, a cohort of patients with gouty arthritis were assembled for the purpose of validating the molecular mechanism.The results of our study demonstrated that a reduction of butyrate levels, resulting from a deficiency of butyrate-producing bacteria, leads to aberrant miR-146a expression. This, in turn, induces an imbalance in macrophage polarization and the onset of gouty arthritis. The administration of C. butyricum and butyrate demonstrated considerable anti-inflammatory efficacy by restoring intestinal homeostasis, modulating miR-146a expression, and skewing macrophage polarization. The SOCS7/JAK2-STAT3 signaling pathway was identified as a pivotal mediator in the skewing of macrophage polarization induced by miR-146a.Our findings enrich the understanding of the regulatory mechanisms underlying macrophage polarization in gouty arthritis and highlight the potential applications of probiotics and their metabolites in clinical gout treatment.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.
As a crucial member of the Suppressor of Cytokine Signaling (SOCS) family, SOCS7 regulates various physiological processes, including insulin resistance, inflammation, and tumor suppression. However, its role in male germ cells remains poorly understood. This study aims to investigate the function of SOCS7 in spermatogenesis and uncover its potential regulatory mechanisms.We conducted bioinformatics analyses to examine the expression profile of Socs7 in the testes, generated Socs7-knockout (KO) mice using CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing, and assessed testicular morphology through histological and immunohistochemical staining. Semen quality was evaluated using computer-assisted sperm analysis (CASA), and testicular apoptosis was examined using the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) assay.Bioinformatics analysis revealed high expression of Socs7 in both human and mouse testes. However, Socs7-KO mice exhibited normal fertility, with no significant differences in testicular morphology, sperm quality, or spermatogenesis compared to wild-type (WT) mice. Additionally, testicular apoptosis in Socs7-KO mice was not significantly altered.Our study demonstrates that although Socs7 is highly expressed in the testes, its deletion does not impair male fertility or spermatogenesis in mice. These findings provide valuable insights into the role of SOCS7 in male reproduction and help prevent unnecessary duplication of research efforts.AJTR Copyright © 2025.
This study investigates the role of miR-203 in regulating renal cell injury in diabetic nephropathy by targeting the suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) proteins SOCS6 and SOCS7. Using NRK cells, we assessed apoptosis through flow cytometry and TUNEL assays, while real-time quantitative PCR (RT-PCR) quantified miRNA and mRNA expressions. Cell viability was measured using the CCK-8 assay, and cytokine levels were determined through ELISA. We also evaluated reactive oxygen species (ROS) and malondialdehyde (MDA) levels with specific assay kits. The dual luciferase assay confirmed the interaction of miR-203 with SOCS6 and SOCS7. Western blotting analyzed the protein levels of key signaling molecules including JAK1, p-JAK1, JAK2, p-JAK2, STAT3, and p-STAT3.Our findings revealed that high glucose (HG) treatment reduced miR-203 levels, leading to decreased NRK cell proliferation, increased cytokine concentrations (TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-4, IL-6), heightened ROS and MDA levels, and increased cell apoptosis. Notably, miR-203 mimics counteracted HG's detrimental effects, while miR-203 inhibitors exacerbated them. Mechanistically, miR-203 directly decreased SOCS6 and SOCS7 expression, thereby inhibiting JAK/STAT3 signaling. Thus, miR-203 provides protective effects against renal cell injury by modulating SOCS and their associated pathways.© 2025. The Author(s).
The suppressors of cytokine signaling (SOCS) genes were first described in a group of articles published in 1997. Since that time, much has been learned about the functional activities mediated by the corresponding proteins encoded by the SOCS genes. The SOCS gene family contains eight members: SOCS1 through SOCS7 and a highly related gene known as CISH (cytokine-inducible SH2-containing protein). Although much is known about the ability of the SOCS proteins to autoregulate responses to individual cytokines, much less is known about the ability of the SOCS proteins to cross-regulate cytokine signaling. The studies described in a new report by Bidgood et al. in this issue of JICR demonstrate that SOCS1 expression induced by one cytokine, interferon (IFN)-γ, can cross-regulate signaling induced by another cytokine, granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), in murine bone marrow-derived macrophages. The authors show that the ability of SOCS1 to inhibit cytokine signaling is dose- and time-dependent. SOCS1 must reach a critical threshold level before it can exert a marked inhibitory effect on autocrine signaling through the IFN-γ receptor or paracrine signaling through the GM-CSF receptor.
Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs), particularly M2-polarized TAMs, are significant contributors to tumor progression, immune evasion, and therapy resistance in gastric cancer (GC). Despite efforts to target TAM recruitment or depletion, clinical efficacy remains limited. Consequently, the identification of targets that specifically inhibit or reprogram M2-polarized TAMs presents a promising therapeutic strategy.This study aims to identify a dual-function target in GC cells that drives both malignant phenotypes and M2 macrophage polarization, revealing its molecular mechanisms to provide novel therapeutic targets for selectivly targeting M2-polarized TAMs in GC.Transcriptomic and clinical data from GC and adjacent tissues were utilized to identify mRNAs associated with high M2 macrophage infiltration and poor prognosis. Single-cell sequencing elucidated cell types expressing the target gene. Transwell co-culture and exosome intervention experiments demonstrated its role in M2 polarization. Small RNA sequencing of exosomes, western blotting, and CoIP assays revealed the molecular mechanisms underlying exosome-mediated M2 polarization. Protein array, ChIP and dual-luciferase reporter assays clarified the molecular mechanisms by which the target gene regulated exosomal miRNA. In vivo validation was performed using xenograft tumor models.SERPINE1 was identified as a highly expressed mRNA in GC tissues and cells, significantly associated with advanced clinical stages, worse prognosis, and higher M2 macrophage infiltration in patients with GC. SERPINE1 overexpression in GC cells promoted tumor growth and M2 macrophage polarization. SERPINE1 facilitated the transfer of let-7 g-5p to macrophages via cancer-derived exosomes, inducing M2 polarization. Exosomal let-7 g-5p internalized by macrophages downregulated SOCS7 protein levels, disrupting its interaction with STAT3 and relieving the inhibition of STAT3 phosphorylation, thereby leading to STAT3 hyperactivation, which consequently drove M2 polarization. Additionally, in GC cells, elevated SERPINE1 expression activated JAK2, enhancing STAT3 binding to the let-7 g-5p promoter and promoting its transcription, thereby increasing let-7 g-5p levels in exosomes.GC cell-derived SERPINE1, functioning as a primary driver of GC growth and TAM M2 polarization, promotes M2 polarization through the regulation of exosomal let-7 g-5p transfer via autocrine activation of the JAK2/STAT3 signaling pathway. These findings elucidate a novel mechanism of SERPINE1-induced M2 polarization and highlight SERPINE1 as a promising target for advancing immunotherapy and targeted treatments in GC.© 2024. The Author(s).
Background: Coarctation of the aorta (CoA) is a congenital narrowing of the aortic isthmus near the ductus arteriosus or ligamentum arteriosum. Despite successful anatomical repair, patients remain at risk of recoarctation, arterial hypertension, and diffuse aortopathy, suggesting intrinsic vessel-wall abnormalities beyond localized obstruction. The developmental and molecular basis of these persistent vascular features remains incompletely understood. Methods: Human aortic tissue samples were obtained from 8 male infants with CoA and 6 age- and sex-matched controls aged <1 year. Total RNA was isolated, and gene expression profiling was performed using whole human genome oligo microarrays (Agilent). Differentially expressed transcripts were subjected to pathway, network, and upstream regulator analyses using Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA, Qiagen). Selected candidate genes were evaluated by RT-qPCR in independent verification sets. Results: Transcriptomic profiling identified 402 analysis-ready transcripts distinguishing CoA from control tissue. Exploratory pathway analyses suggested extracellular matrix remodeling characterized by collagen turnover, integrin-mediated cell-matrix interactions, wound-healing signaling, and fibrosis-associated programs. In addition, enrichment analyses identified developmental annotations involving retinoic acid (RA)/RAR/RXR signaling, HOX-associated developmental programs, and a shared HOX/MEIS-associated signature. Network and upstream regulator analyses further suggested associations with cytoskeletal, muscle-associated, and epigenetic regulatory pathways, including KAT6A, KAT6B, retinoic acid/RAR/RXR signaling, DNMT3B, KMT2A, and ARID1A. RT-qPCR independently confirmed increased expression of EDN1, AGTR2, IRS4, and TFAP2B.Conclusions: Infantile CoA tissue exhibited molecular signatures consistent with vessel-wall remodeling accompanied by developmental, vascular signaling, and smooth muscle/cytoskeletal regulatory programs. These findings support the hypothesis that developmental patterning signals and postnatal extracellular matrix remodeling coexist within CoA tissue and may contribute to persistent vascular abnormalities beyond anatomical repair. Given the exploratory nature of the study, these observations should be considered hypothesis-generating and require validation in independent cohorts.
Breast cancer (BC) metastasis remains a major cause of mortality, yet the molecular mechanisms driving this process are incompletely understood. This study identifies TMEM216, a transmembrane protein implicated in ciliary homeostasis, as a suppressor of lung metastasis in BC. Using mammary-specific Tmem216 knockout mice, we demonstrate that Tmem216 deficiency promotes lung metastasis without affecting primary tumor proliferation. Clinical analyses reveal reduced TMEM216 expression in metastatic lesions and aggressive cell lines, correlating with poor patient distant metastasis-free survival. Mechanistically, TMEM216 interacts with IGF1R and binds to IRS4 via the conserved K79-D1049 interaction, disrupting the IGF1R-IRS4 complex formation and suppressing IGF pathway activation. Rescue experiments in vitro and in vivo confirm that TMEM216-mediated metastasis inhibition depends on IGF signaling modulation. Tissue microarray analyses further establish an inverse correlation between TMEM216 levels and IGF1R phosphorylation in BC patients, with low TMEM216 expression associated with advanced metastasis. These findings delineate TMEM216 as a critical regulator of the IGF1R-IRS4 axis, offering therapeutic opportunities for targeting metastatic BC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) is the most common subtype of thyroid cancer, with a globally increasing incidence. The disease exhibits significant sex-related clinical and biological differences: while incidence is approximately three times higher in women, men face a greater risk of lymph node metastasis, recurrence, and mortality. This gender disparity may be associated with hormonal factors, particularly estrogens, which are known to modulate cellular proliferation, invasion, migration, and adhesion in thyroid tumor cells. However, the molecular pathways underlying these effects remain poorly understood. In this context, the hallmarks of cancer proposed by Hanahan-such as sustained proliferative signaling, evasion of cell death, and reprogramming of the tumor microenvironment-provide a valuable framework to investigate sex-based disparities. This study assessed, via immunohistochemistry, the expression of molecular markers related to ferroptosis (GPX4, ALOX5, ACSL4, TFRC), the NLRP3 inflammasome and its components (NLRP3, ASC, caspase-1, caspase-5, caspase-8, IL-1β, and IL-18), proliferation (IRS-4), and tumor suppression (KLOTHO) in PTC samples from 25 men and 25 women. Our results demonstrated increased expression of ferroptosis-related markers, components of the NLRP3 inflammasome, and IRS-4 in female-derived samples, whereas male samples exhibited higher KLOTHO expression levels. These findings support the hypothesis of a molecular basis for sexual dimorphism in PTC and highlight the need for further research with larger cohorts and mechanistic approaches to elucidate these pathways and their therapeutic potential.© The author(s).
Despite expanding therapeutic options, the prognosis of lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) remains poor. Immune checkpoint inhibitors benefit only a subset of patients, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) has been implicated in invasion, metastasis, treatment resistance, and immune heterogeneity. Therefore, EMT-related biomarkers may offer improved risk stratification.To identify differentially expressed EMT-related genes (DEEMTGs) in LUSC, construct an EMT-based prognostic signature, and evaluate its associations with the tumor microenvironment (TME), tumor mutational burden (TMB), and tissue-level expression patterns.The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) RNA-seq and clinical data were analyzed to obtain DEEMTGs. A prognostic model was built using LASSO and multivariable Cox regression. Survival performance was assessed via Kaplan-Meier, ROC, and Cox analyses. Immune infiltration (CIBERSORT), stromal/immune scores (ESTIMATE), and TMB were compared between risk groups. Exploratory immunohistochemistry (IHC; n = 8) provided orthogonal expression validation.A total of 1,651 DEEMTGs were identified, and a six-gene signature (GAB2, ALDOA, PCDHA3, TMEM92, ERH, IRS4) was established. The risk score independently predicted overall survival and corresponded to distinct TME patterns: low-risk tumors showed higher CD8+ T cells, activated CD4+ memory T cells, and naïve B cells, whereas high-risk tumors had more resting CD4+ memory T cells and M0 macrophages. TMB differences were nonsignificant. IHC provided directional protein-level support while acknowledging transcript-protein variability.We developed a biologically interpretable EMT-based prognostic model that stratifies survival and reflects immune-microenvironment heterogeneity in LUSC. Larger, stage-balanced and immunotherapy-treated cohorts are needed to further validate its clinical utility.© 2026 Zhang et al.
Cancer therapeutics frequently fail in clinical trials because of poor therapeutic index (efficacy-to-toxicity ratio). We systematically identified targets likely to have a good therapeutic index, revealing insulin receptor substrate 4 (IRS4) as a dependency in IRS4-expressing cancers. Pan-cancer analysis of pediatric-enriched cancers revealed IRS4 expression consistent with dependency in 68% of choroid plexus, 37% of malignant rhabdoid, 31% of NUT midline, and 5% of osteosarcomas, while in adult cancers, it was expressed in 8% of uterine leiomyosarcomas and 1 to 2% of lung squamous, stomach, and breast carcinomas. IRS4 expression in adult tumors was associated with enhancer hijacking rearrangements, including recurrent GATA3-IRS4 and ANKRD30A-IRS4 in breast cancer, while rhabdoid and NUT midline cancers expressed IRS4 epigenetically. IRS4 fueled cancer dependency through PI3K-Akt activation, and domain analysis revealed the PH and PTB domains, which have a predicted drug pocket, to be dispensable, suggesting degradation-based modalities. These data reveal IRS4 as a target in IRS4-expressing cancers and suggest inhibitory approaches.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), one of the most common endocrine and reproductive disorders in women of reproductive age, is frequently complicated by insulin resistance (IR), which affects 50%–80% of PCOS patients and is strongly associated with an increased risk of early pregnancy loss. Evidence suggests that IR may contribute to this risk by impairing endometrial function, a notion supported by observed functional improvements following metformin treatment. While previous studies have provided clues regarding PCOS with IR (PCOS-IR) at the ovarian miRNA and endometrial protein levels, the understanding of the upstream transcriptomic events regulating these pathways remains limited. We performed RNA-Seq on endometrial tissues from PCOS-IR and PCOS without IR (PCOS-NIR), thereby identifying 339 common differentially expressed genes (DEGs) using DESeq2 and Limma. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that DESeq2-identified genes primarily participated in cellular signaling, metabolic regulation, and immune-related pathways. Further weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) identified gene modules highly correlated with the PCOS-IR phenotype. Integrating multi-step strategies, including random forest analysis and STRING interaction networks, ultimately identified FGF17, AKT3, and IRS4 as key candidate genes. Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) confirmed that FGF17 mRNA expression was significantly downregulated in the endometrium of the PCOS-IR group. This finding suggests that FGF17 may play a pivotal role in PCOS-IR-related endometrial dysfunction, with promise as a therapeutic target to improve reproductive outcomes in patients. These results provide important theoretical support for subsequent mechanistic exploration and clinical intervention.
While acupuncture is an established intervention for insomnia, the neurobiological mechanisms linking its modulation of brain activity to molecular-level changes remain poorly understood. This study addresses a critical gap by integrating multimodal data to uncover how electroacupuncture regulates oscillatory activity in specific brain regions and correlates these changes with proteomic alterations.This study employed a multimodal approach combining clinical scales, polysomnography with 26-channel brainwaves, and proteomic analysis to evaluate the effects of acupuncture.Electroacupuncture significantly improved subjective sleep quality and alleviated anxiety and depression symptoms (p < 0.001). Objectively, it enhanced slow-wave activity (delta, theta, and alpha bands) in key regions such as the frontal and temporal lobes during NREM sleep, while suppressing high-frequency oscillations (beta and gamma bands). Proteomic analysis identified 90 differentially expressed proteins specifically associated with electroacupuncture treatment, including RRM2, ATP5F1E, IRS4, FN1, F5, IDE, UQCRQ, ATP6V0D1, and PPIF. These proteins were enriched in pathways critical to neurotransmitter metabolism (e.g., GABAergic and serotonergic synapses) and complement/coagulation cascades. Correlation analysis revealed significant associations between slow-wave EEG activity and proteins such as UQCRQ and ATP6V0D1 across multiple brain regions (p < 0.05).Electroacupuncture may alleviate insomnia with anxiety and depression by modulating slow-wave synchronization and high-frequency oscillations. This neurophysiological regulation might be mediated through key proteins in signaling pathways linking neural, immune, and metabolic functions. Our study thus provides evidence for a multilevel mechanism supporting electroacupuncture as a multimodal therapy.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Thymic epithelial tumors (TET), comprising various histologic types of thymomas and thymic carcinomas, originate from thymic epithelial cells (TEC). Each histologic type is typically associated with a distinct immune cell composition and clinical manifestation. A better understanding of the cellular origins and molecular pathways underlying this heterogeneity is needed to improve patient stratification and treatment. In this study, we conducted an integrated genomic and transcriptomic analysis of 124 thymomas and 13 thymic carcinomas, including 20 newly sequenced cases, combined with 117 cases from publicly available datasets. Single-cell transcriptomic data from murine thymic tissues across developmental stages were incorporated to further investigate potential cells of origin. This approach stratified TETs into three subgroups with different possible origins: GTF2I-mutant (GTF2I-type) thymomas, copy number-altered (CN-type) thymomas, and thymic carcinomas. GTF2I-type thymomas, carrying hotspot GTF2I mutations, displayed transcriptional profiles resembling thymic epithelial progenitors. In contrast, CN-type thymomas, characterized by frequent copy-number alterations and IRS4 oncogene transcriptional activation, showed expression patterns similar to differentiated TECs. Thymic carcinomas, with high mutational burdens, exhibited profiles comparable with thymic tuft cells. The three subgroups also differed markedly in transcriptional programs, including lipid metabolism and immune phenotypes. Early acquisition of chromosomal copy-number alterations in CN-type thymomas further supported different evolutionary paths among subgroups. Together, these findings provide insights into the cellular origins and tumorigenic processes of TETs and underscore the value of integrative genomics for accurate cancer classification.Thymic epithelial tumors can be classified into three subgroups based on genomic features and potential cells of origin, highlighting the importance of integrative analyses for accurate classification and therapeutic discovery.©2026 The Authors; Published by the American Association for Cancer Research.
To identify key molecular regulators of GDM in placental tissues using transcriptome sequencing.This study employed transcriptome sequencing to investigate placental tissue from GDM patients (n=7) and healthy controls (n=6), aiming to identify key molecular regulators and pathways underlying GDM pathogenesis.We identified 505 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), including 216 upregulated and 289 downregulated genes. Notably, PCK1 (phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1) and IRS4 (insulin receptor substrate 4) emerged as critical regulators. Quantitative real time PCR validation confirmed significant downregulation of PCK1 and upregulation of IRS4 in GDM placentas. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that PCK1 is associated with the CLINK/HLA-G/INAVA/KLRC2/PCK1/RBP4/SLAMF6 pathway, which was suppressed in GDM, while IRS4 correlated with the dysregulated AGRP/IRS4/RXRG axis.These findings highlight the roles of placental PCK1 and IRS4 in GDM. Further mechanistic studies, including protein-level validation and animal models, are warranted to explore these pathways as potential diagnostic or therapeutic targets for GDM.© 2025 Wang et al.
We aimed to explore the influence of different force-feeding intensities on foie gras performance. Geese were force-fed with A (force-feeding four times per day and lasting 28 days) and B (force-feeding 5 times per day and lasting 18 days) at two levels of force-feeding intensities in this study. An integrative analysis of the liver transcriptome, amino acid metabolome, and long-chain fatty acid metabolome was performed. In serum, the levels of blood glucose, insulin, triglyceride (TG), and very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) of the B group were significantly higher than those of the A group (p < 0.05). The B force-feeding intensity induced more severe steatosis in the goose liver. Transcriptome analysis showed that 948 upregulated differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and 519 downregulated DEGs were identified (A vs. B); key DEGs G6PD, IGF1, IGF2, and MLX were upregulated; LPL, IRS1, IRS4, and IGF1R were downregulated. Principal component analysis (PCA) indicated that there was clear separation and discrimination in liver free amino acids profiles and long-chain fatty acids profiles between the A and B groups, respectively. The Lys level of the B group was significantly higher than that of the A group (p < 0.05). The highest enrichment pathway of different amino acids was valine, leucine, and isoleucine biosynthesis, whereas alanine, aspartate, and glutamate metabolism was the pathway involved with the highest impact score. The levels of saturated fatty acids (SFAs), monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs), unsaturated fatty acids (UFAs), C14:0, C16:1, C16:0, C18:2n6c, C18:1n9c, and C18:0 of the B group were significantly higher than those of the A group (p < 0.05). The highest impact score pathway related to different fatty acids was linoleic acid metabolism, and the highest enrichment pathway involved in different fatty acids was biosynthesis of unsaturated fatty acids. In conclusion, liver DEGs involved in glucolipid metabolism, different free amino acids, and different fatty acids collectively shaped the foie gras performance difference induced by different force-feeding intensities.Copyright © 2025 Teng, Wei, Peng, Li, Ning, Luo, Wei, Bai, Zhou and Han.
Products derived from Santalum species have been valued for centuries in religious practices and traditional Chinese and Indian medicine for treating various conditions, including inflammatory and skin disorders.This study investigated the impact of two essential oils, S. album L. and S. spicatum (R.Br.) A.DC. on bacterial isolates obtained from skin samples, as well as their impact on mammalian cells and enzymes involved in the eicosanoid cascade.Chemical composition was analyzed by GC-MS. Antibacterial activity against clinical isolates was assessed by broth microdilution to determine minimum inhibitory (MIC) and minimum bactericidal concentrations (MBC). Cytotoxicity in HaCaT and HFF-1 cells was evaluated using the MTT and ROS assays. Inhibition of 5-lipoxygenase (5-LOX), cyclooxygenase (COX), and phospholipase A2 (PLA2) was also determined.α-Santalol and β-santalol were identified in both essential oils, with higher relative abundance in S. album. Both oils were active against Gram-positive isolates, with MIC values of 15.625-62.5 μg mL-1 and MBC values of 31.25-125 μg mL-1, showing bactericidal activity. No evident cytotoxicity and inhibition of ROS was observed below 500 μg mL-1. Both oils inhibited 5-LOX (S. album, 82.29 ± 8.85 μg mL-1; S. spicatum, 121.33 ± 52.03 μg mL-1) and PLA2 (100.12 ± 41.36 and 114.21 ± 17.25 μg mL-1, respectively), while S. spicatum also showed COX inhibitory activity.These findings demonstrate in vitro antibacterial activity against Gram-positive clinical isolates and modulation of eicosanoid-related enzymes, supporting further investigation of the biological relevance of both essential oils in inflammatory processes.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Despite advancements in digital health coaching (DHC) for type 2 diabetes self-management, a persistent digital divide limits access among underserved populations, necessitating low-tech, telephone-based alternatives.This formative qualitative study explored the lived experiences of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) self-management challenges among adults in Alabama and elicited preferences for telephone-based DHC to inform intervention optimization.This study was part of a larger National Institutes of Health clinical trial (5R01DK129378) that examined the feasibility and needs of a telephone-based DHC intervention for self-management of T2DM. The study employed a qualitative, phenomenological approach to assess patients' needs surrounding digital coaching. Twelve patients diagnosed with T2DM were recruited between August and December 2022. Data collection involved in-depth, semistructured interviews conducted via telephone calls or secure Zoom sessions. All interviews were audio-recorded, professionally transcribed, and verified for accuracy. Two independent coders analyzed the data using NVivo software version 14 Plus.Two themes emerged: (1) multifaceted barriers to diabetes self-management spanning behavioral (dietary adherence and nutritional gaps), physical/environmental (mobility limitations and weather constraints), and structural domains (medication shortages, insurance coverage limiting continuous glucose monitoring); (2) expectations for telephone-based DHC, including targeted education (meal planning, exercise adaptations, and medication effects), health coaches as accountability partners, daily reminders and check-ins via texts/calls, and incentives as extrinsic motivators to adherence. Insights from the study directly shaped the intervention components of a pilot feasibility trial (NCT05344859).Key challenges in day-to-day T2DM management included diet, physical activity, medication unavailability, and lack of insurance coverage for continuous glucose monitors. Expectations for a potential telephone-based DHC intervention included targeted education on diet, exercise, and medication effects; perceptions of health coaches as accountability partners; reminders via texts/calls as beneficial; and monetary incentives as extrinsic motivators for adherence to the intervention.© Tejossy John, Sangeetha Mohanraj, Tanjila Nawshin, Tapan Mehta, Mohanraj Thirumalai. Originally published in JMIR Diabetes (https://diabetes.jmir.org).
In industrial yeast fermentations, population-level viability assays routinely report healthy cultures even as aged, metabolically compromised mother-cell subpopulations go undetected. Replicative age contributes to this hidden heterogeneity, but its link to a cell's metabolic competence has been difficult to measure simultaneously in the same cell by high-throughput flow cytometry. Here, we introduce a dual-parameter flow cytometry workflow combining bud-scar labeling with a recombinant His6-SUMO-mCherry-chitin-binding domain fusion protein (~610 nm emission) and 5(6)-carboxyfluorescein diacetate (CFDA)-based viability detection (~525 nm), providing spectral orthogonality without computational autofluorescence correction. We applied it to four industrially relevant yeasts: Saccharomyces pastorianus W-34/70, S. cerevisiae var. diastaticus BE-134, S. cerevisiae var. chevalieri LA-01, and Komagataella phaffii X33. In S. pastorianus, viability declined monotonically from 88 % in daughter cells to 5 % in the oldest resolved mother-cell class; longitudinal monitoring over 96 h captured a progressive widening of this gradient masked at the population level. Among S. cerevisiae variants, age-dependent gradients were weaker and strain-specific, while in K. phaffii reliable discrimination required exponential growth. Replicative age is thus a strain-dependent predictor of metabolic competence rather than a universally conserved one, and the workflow offers brewers and bioprocess developers a practical tool for age-resolved fermentation monitoring and pitching-yeast assessment.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of FEMS.
Skin integrity is necessary for protection against microbial invasion, and disturbance of this barrier predisposes to infections, particularly those caused by Staphylococcus aureus.Study antioxidant SOD3, GPX4 genes expression and interaction with other genes and skin histopathology, hematological, and biochemical parameters as integrated markers of efficacy and safety of therapeutic potential of honeybee venom used in S. aureus-associated skin wounds.Male albino rats were divided into five different groups. The dorsal fur of experimental rats was shaved to create the bacterial infection site. After three weeks of treatment, wound healing was evaluated through histopathological examination, while systemic influences were assessed using hematological and biochemical parameters. The expression levels of antioxidant genes SOD3 and GPX4 were quantified. In silico analyses were conducted using gnomAD and GeneMANIA databases.Gene expression analysis revealed significant lower relative expression of SOD3 and GPX4 in the positive control group, whereas honeybee venom obviously increased relative expression both genes. The gnomAD database identified 812 variants in SOD3 and 2064 variants in GPX4. GeneMANIA analysis exhibited that SOD3 and GPX4 interact with 8 and 17 related genes, respectively, mainly through physical interaction. Histopathological results showing impaired skin architecture in infected rats and partial improvement by honeybee venom. Hematological analysis demonstrated minor variations. Liver enzymes were improved in honeybee venom treated groups. Renal function parameters showed no significant differences.Honeybee venom ability to increase relative expression SOD3 and GPX4 and promote tissue partial restoration highlights its potential as an effective therapeutic agent for infected wounds.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Rituximab (RTX) has been proven effective in the treatment of idiopathic nephrotic syndrome (INS). The development of anti-rituximab antibodies (ARA) may compromise its efficacy and safety. However, the incidence and clinical relevance of ARA in pediatric INS remain incompletely defined.This retrospective study involved 90 pediatric patients with INS who were treated with RTX at a dose of 375 mg/m2 at Jinling Hospital, Affiliated Hospital of Medical School of Nanjing University, China, between March 2024 and May 2025. ARA were detected using a paramagnetic particle chemiluminescence immunoassay.ARA were detected in 30 of 90 patients (33.3%). The incidence of ARA positivity increased progressively with subsequent RTX infusions, rising markedly after the third infusion. ARA-positive patients had a significantly higher relapse rate compared with ARA-negative patients (83.3% vs. 25.0%, p < 0.001), higher CD20⁺ B-cell counts at 3 and 6 months (p < 0.005), and an increased risk of infusion-related reactions (IRR) during multiple RTX infusions (p = 0.019). Multivariate analyses identified younger age at first RTX administration, a higher number of RTX infusions, and occurrence of multiple IRR as independent risk factors for ARA positivity.ARA are associated with impaired B-cell depletion and higher relapse rates. Monitoring ARA may help identify patients at risk of treatment failure and guide individualized therapeutic strategies.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to International Pediatric Nephrology Association.
The genus Streptococcus contains some of the most important commensals and pathogens of the human microbiome. To obtain the fatty acids required for cell membranes, Streptococcus either produce fatty acids de novo through the fatty acid biosynthesis (fab) pathway or uptake host fatty acids through the fatty acid kinase (fak) pathway. Although both the fab and fak pathways represent potential therapeutic targets to prevent or treat infection, progress is limited because of an incomplete understanding of taxon-to-taxon variability in streptococcal lipid metabolism. Here, we examined the role of de novo monounsaturated fatty acid (MUFA) synthesis in physiology and virulence-associated traits in Streptococcus mutans, Streptococcus pyogenes, and Streptococcus pneumoniae, three major pathogens that cause disease at distinct body sites. In all three species, deletion of fabM abolished MUFA production and caused severe growth defects, decreased stress tolerance, increased antibiotic susceptibility, and defects in cell viability, morphology, and division. In S. mutans, loss of fabM also markedly reduced competence signaling and production of the mutacin IV bacteriocin. Deletion of fabM increased susceptibility to killing by human neutrophils in S. mutans and S. pneumoniae, but not S. pyogenes. Together, these findings illustrate that MUFA synthesis is broadly important for streptococcal physiology and cell membrane homeostasis, while its contribution to pathogenesis is strongly species- and context-dependent, providing leads to guide the development of novel therapeutic and/or preventative strategies.IMPORTANCEStreptococcus spp. exert profound effects on human health, with several species causing significant morbidity and mortality. Although streptococcal fatty acid biosynthesis and utilization are attractive metabolic targets for development of therapeutics, this opportunity is vexed by an incomplete understanding of taxon-to-taxon variability in lipid metabolism. In this study, the role of de novo monounsaturated fatty acid (MUFA) synthesis in physiology and virulence-associated traits was examined in Streptococcus mutans, Streptococcus pyogenes, and Streptococcus pneumoniae, three major pathogens that cause disease at distinct body sites. MUFA synthesis was important for stress and antibiotic tolerance across all three species, while its impact on virulence was species- and context-dependent. Overall, these discoveries provide leads to guide the development of novel therapeutic and/or preventative strategies.
Streptococcus pneumoniae is a major colonizer of the human nasopharynx, where inter- and intra-strain competition plays a critical role in shaping population structure and influencing vaccine outcomes. Bacteriocins are key mediators of intra-species competition, yet many of their functions and regulatory mechanisms remain poorly understood. Here, we identify and characterize streptolancidin D, a previously uncharacterized bacteriocin encoded by the sldA-T locus, and demonstrate its contribution to pneumococcal competition. Using isogenic streptolancidin-producing and non-producing variants of a naturally colonizing strain, we show that sldA-T contributes to the inhibition of competitor strains in in vitro biofilms and during murine co-colonization. Importantly, streptolancidin D also inhibited in vitro a subset of genetically diverse pneumococcal isolates representing multiple serotypes, whereas non-producing variants showed no activity. This indicates that its effect is broad and not restricted to isogenic interactions. Genomic analysis of over 7,500 pneumococcal genomes revealed that sldA-T is present in ~12% of isolates, with lineage-associated distribution patterns, and is consistently encoded downstream of the Rgg144/SHP144 quorum sensing system. We further demonstrate that sldA-T is regulated by this system, with sldA-T promoter activity abolished in a SHP-deficient background and partially restored by exogenous peptide stimulation. Finally, we show that streptolancidin D acts in concert with other bacteriocin systems and competence-mediated fratricide, highlighting a multifactorial antimicrobial strategy that enhances pneumococcal competitiveness. Overall, our findings identify a quorum sensing-regulated bacteriocin that contributes to pneumococcal competition and helps shape population dynamics.Bacteriocins are central to bacterial competition and niche occupation, particularly in structured environments like the human nasopharynx. While several pneumococcal bacteriocins have been characterized, the functions of many remain unknown, limiting our understanding of how these systems shape strain fitness and population dynamics. We characterize streptolancidin D, a bacteriocin that enhances intraspecies competitiveness in vitro and in vivo and contributes to the inhibition of genetically diverse pneumococcal strains. We demonstrate that its expression is tightly regulated by the conserved Rgg144/SHP144 quorum sensing system and that the locus is distributed and shows synteny across multiple pneumococcal lineages. Our findings reveal that streptolancidin D operates within a broader network of bacteriocins and competence-associated mechanisms that collectively shape competitive interactions. By integrating genomic, functional, and regulatory analyses, this work expands the known repertoire of pneumococcal antimicrobial systems and provides new insights into the mechanisms underpinning competition and population structure in S. pneumoniae.
Suicidal thoughts and behaviors (STB) are among the leading causes of death worldwide. Although previous research has consistently documented elevated risk-taking in individuals with STB and identified mood disturbances as central features of suicidality, the precise cognitive and affective computational mechanisms underlying this increased risky behavior remain poorly understood. Here, 83 adolescent inpatients with affective disorders-including 58 patients with STB (S+) and 25 without STB (S-)-and 118 age- and sex-matched healthy controls (HC) completed a decision-making task involving choices between certain and gamble options, alongside momentary mood ratings. Behavioral analyses showed that S+ exhibited greater risk-taking than both S- and HC. Computational modeling of choice behavior using a prospect-theory framework augmented with value-insensitive approach-avoidance parameters indicated that this increase in risky behavior was specifically driven by an elevated approach parameter in S+. In addition, mood-model analyses revealed reduced sensitivity to certain rewards in S+ relative to S- and HC. Importantly, these computational signatures predicted suicidal symptom severity and showed generalizability in an independent general-population sample (n = 747). In S+, lower mood sensitivity to certain rewards was associated with greater gambling, providing a computational affective account of increased risk-taking in STB. These findings remained robust after adjusting for demographic, clinical, and medication-related variables. Overall, our study identifies cognitive and affective computational mechanisms contributing to elevated risk-taking in STB and highlights their potential relevance for the early identification and prevention of suicidality.© 2025, Wang, Nan et al.
This study aims to investigate the influence of age and gender on the efficacy of metabolic surgery in patients with obesity with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).This is a prospective cohort study. A total of 95 patients with obesity and T2DM who underwent metabolic surgery between June 2022 and October 2024 were enrolled. Patients were divided into four groups based on their age and gender as follows: young (<35 years) men, young women, middle-aged (35-55 years) men and middle-aged women. Body mass index (BMI) data, glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) levels and gastrointestinal peptide hormone (e.g. glucagon- like peptide-1 (GLP-1), peptide YY (PYY) and ghrelin (GHRL)) levels, as well as Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale and Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D) scores, were collected preoperatively and at 1, 3 and 6 months postoperatively. Gastrointestinal peptide hormone levels were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and anxiety and depression statuses were assessed using online questionnaires. Data were analysed using repeated measures analysis of variance, paired t-tests, analysis of covariance and multiple linear regression, with adjustments for baseline BMI, diabetes duration and surgical type (laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy vs Roux-en-Y gastric bypass) where appropriate.Both BMI and HbA1c levels decreased significantly in all groups postoperatively, with a greater reduction observed in the younger groups compared with the middle-aged groups at the 6- month timepoint (adjusted p < 0.01). The percentage of total weight loss was lower in women than in men (mean difference: 2.8%, 95% confidence interval: 1.1-4.5, p = 0.03). Among gastrointestinal peptide hormones, GLP-1, PYY and cholecystokinin (CCK) significantly increased, whereas GHRL, insulin (INS) and leptin significantly decreased postoperatively. The increase in GLP-1 was more pronounced in the younger groups than in the middle-aged groups (r = -0.312, p < 0.05). Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale scores were negatively correlated with INS (r = -0.297, p < 0.05) and positively correlated with GHRL (r = 0.286, p < 0.05), whereas HAM-D scores were negatively correlated with CCK (r = -0.258, p < 0.05). Multivariate analysis revealed that younger age (β = -0.251, p = 0.004), female gender (β = 0.178, p = 0.041), and higher HAM-A scores (β = 0.327, p = 0.002) were independent factors influencing the significant changes observed in gastrointestinal hormone levels.Individualised treatment plans based on patient age, gender and psychological status should be developed in clinical practice, and lifestyle and psychological interventions should be developed further to improve surgical outcomes and maintain the long-term efficacy of metabolic surgery.Metabolic surgery is effective in patients with obesity with T2DM, with younger patients experiencing greater metabolic improvement.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Nitrate consumption by ruminants may enrich nitrate-respiring Salmonella in the gut. To test whether tungstate, an inhibitor of nitrate reductase, may prevent nitrate-promoted enrichment of Salmonella, ruminal microbes inoculated with or without 104 colony-forming units (CFU)/mL of Salmonella Newport were incubated for 26 h under simulated rumen conditions with or without 10 mM nitrate, 100 mM tungstate, or their combination. Results indicated more nitrate was metabolized (p < 0.05) by ruminal populations supplemented with nitrate alone than with nitrate and tungstate combined, with means (± standard deviations) being 8.55 ± 0.74 and 3.97 ± 0.67 μmol nitrate/mL, respectively. Nitrite accumulations were affected (p < 0.05) by tungstate treatment, achieving 4.96 ± 0.26 and 0.18 ± 0.07 μmol/mL in populations supplemented with nitrate alone or combined with tungstate, respectively, when not inoculated with S. Newport and achieving 1.95 ± 0.18 and 0.06 ± 0.01 μmol/mL, respectively, when inoculated with S. Newport. Salmonella increased (p < 0.05) in populations treated with tungstate, alone or combined with nitrate (5.82 ± 0.10 and 5.57 ± 0.15 log10 CFU/mL, respectively), compared to controls or nitrate-only supplemented populations (1.63 ± 0.58 and 2.84 ± 0.21 log10 CFU/mL, respectively). In populations not inoculated with S. Newport, the addition of nitrate, tungstate, or their combination increased (p < 0.05) wild-type coliforms by 1.4 to 3.9 log10 units compared to untreated controls (2.67 ± 0.18 log10 CFU/mL). In S. Newport-inoculated populations, tungstate treatment, alone or combined with nitrate, increased (p < 0.05) coliforms by 2.8 to 3.2 log10 units compared to control and nitrate-only supplemented populations (3.06 ± 0.48 and 3.49 ± 0.06 log10 CFU/mL, respectively). Wildtype lactic acid bacteria were enriched by tungstate treatment and nitrate supplementation, alone or combined to 0.2 to 1.1 log10 units, compared to untreated controls (6.84 ± 0.03 and 6.68 ± 0.16 log10 CFU/mL, respectively). Methane production decreased by 70% (p < 0.05) in populations supplemented with nitrate, whether alone or combined with tungstate, compared to untreated or tungstate-only treated populations (29.85 ± 5.05 and 23.08 ± 5.49 μmol methane/mL of incubation fluid, respectively). These results indicate that tungstate treatment marginally decreased nitrate metabolism in the ruminal populations but surprisingly promoted Salmonella enrichment.Copyright © 2026 Anderson, Shaw, Dominguez, Johnson, Amat, Kotzur, Baynham, Drewery, Genovese, Crippen and Arsenault.
Copyright: &copy; 2026 dos Santos et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License (CC BY 4.0), which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited. Ewing sarcoma (ES) is an aggressive childhood tumor. We have previously shown that tropomyosin receptor kinase (Trk) neurotrophin receptors regulate viability, and the Trk and multi-kinase inhibitor K252a restores sensitivity to chemotherapy, in ES cells. Here, we show that administration of K252a in mice transiently delays ES tumor growth and reduces expression and phosphorylation of multiple targets. BALB/c nu/nu nude mice inoculated with SK-ES-1 ES cells were given daily intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections of K252a for 18 days. Immunohistochemical analysis of tumors was performed to quantify the expression and phosphorylation of Trk receptors, phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K), and insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF1R). Treatment with K252a led to a partial and transient delay in ES tumor growth and reduced the expression and phosphorylation of TrkA, TrkB, PI3K, and IGF1R. Combined treatment with K252a and the IGF1R inhibitor NVP-ADW742 was more effective in reducing ES cell viability than each compound alone. Associations between genes encoding Trks, PI3K, and IGF1R and overall survival (OS) in patients with ES was examined. Significant associations between expression of NTRK genes and patient OS were found, indicating that NTRK genes should be further evaluated as biomarkers for prognosis in patients with ES.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42565887
Acromegaly is a rare disease caused by growth hormone (GH) hypersecretion from a pituitary adenoma. Pegvisomant is the only approved GH receptor antagonist (GHRA) and is administered via daily subcutaneous injections, which limits real-world effectiveness. Here, we report the discovery and characterization of MAR002, a novel, half-life extended monoclonal antibody GHRA. MAR002 was identified by immunizing transgenic mice with the extracellular domain (ECD) of human and cynomolgus monkey GH receptor (GHR) and engineered with Fc modifications to limit effector function and extend serum half-life. MAR002 was benchmarked against pegvisomant in biophysical assays, cellular signaling inhibition studies, and a head-to-head pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) study in cynomolgus monkeys. MAR002 exhibited higher binding affinity to GHR and >100-fold more potent inhibition of GH-induced GHR signaling than pegvisomant (human half-maximal inhibitory concentration [IC50] 1.05 nM vs 122 nM). Epitope binning demonstrated simultaneous binding of MAR002 and GH to GHR, consistent with an allosteric, non-competitive mechanism; notably, MAR002 inhibitory activity was maintained at supraphysiological GH concentrations, whereas pegvisomant activity was competitively reduced. In cynomolgus monkeys, a single 10 mg/kg intravenous (IV) dose of MAR002 sustained ≥50% IGF-1 suppression for 36 days compared with 15 days for an equimolar pegvisomant dose, with comparable maximal lowering (∼80%). These findings support clinical evaluation of MAR002 as a next-generation long-acting GHRA for acromegaly, with potential for reduced dosing frequency and more consistent suppression of the GH-IGF-1 axis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society.
Constitutive activation of the MAPK pathway is a hallmark of melanoma, leading to aberrant cell proliferation and survival. Although oncogenic mutations in NRAS and BRAF are well established, the functional and therapeutic significance of RAF1 mutations remains incompletely defined. Here, we identify RAF1 S257L and S259F as recurrent hotspot mutations in melanoma by integrating our hospital cohort with TCGA-SKCM. These conserved region 2 mutations relieve CRAF autoinhibition by reducing inhibitory Ser259 phosphorylation, resulting in elevated ERK signalling in a dimerization-dependent manner. Both mutants exhibit oncogenic activity and transform melanocytes in vitro, and the resulting transformed cells display intrinsic resistance to the RAS(ON) inhibitor daraxonrasib. Subsequent RAF-isoform knockdown and ectopic expression further demonstrate that daraxonrasib-resistant ERK activation is primarily driven by mutant CRAF. Importantly, in human melanoma cells, combined treatment with daraxonrasib and the MEK inhibitor cobimetinib effectively overcomes this mutant CRAF-driven resistance, producing greater suppression of p-ERK and cell proliferation than either agent alone and demonstrating marked synergy. Our findings establish RAF1 S257L/S259F as critical determinants of MAPK pathway activation and cellular response under daraxonrasib, provide mechanistic insights into intrinsic resistance to RAS(ON) inhibition, and underscore a therapeutic framework for genotype-guided combination strategies in RAF1-mutant melanoma.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Pancreatic acinar cell carcinoma (ACC) is a rare and aggressive malignancy whose molecular basis remains poorly understood. N6-methyladenosine (m⁶A) RNA modification, mediated particularly through methyltransferase 3 (METTL3), has emerged as a critical regulator in various cancers. Here, we investigated the role of METTL3-mediated RNA methylation in ACC development and progression. We used transgenic mouse models overexpressing Mettl3 and SV40 large T antigen under the pancreatic elastase I promoter. Comprehensive analyses included m⁶A-methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing (MeRIP-seq), single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), functional studies using the METTL3 inhibitor STM2457, and S-adenosylmethionine (SAM)-binding domain deletion mutants to assess functional requirements. Mettl3 overexpression significantly accelerated ACC development and increased tumor aggressiveness. The SAM-binding domain was essential for tumor formation, as deletion mutants failed to promote carcinogenesis. MeRIP-seq revealed preferential methylation of cell cycle and DNA replication genes in Mettl3-overexpressing tumors. scRNA-seq analysis demonstrated enhanced malignancy signatures, including epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition and transforming growth factor-β signaling. METTL3 also promoted PRSS1-mediated signaling from ACC cells to inflammatory cancer-associated fibroblasts, creating a feed-forward loop involving IGF1 that amplifies tumor growth. Conditional Mettl3 deletion induced rapid tumor apoptosis. Pharmacological inhibition with STM2457 similarly triggered caspase-3/7-dependent apoptosis in pancreatic tumors. METTL3-mediated RNA methylation drives ACC pathogenesis through tumor-intrinsic cell cycle regulation and tumor-extrinsic stromal interactions. These findings establish METTL3 as a promising therapeutic target and provide mechanistic insights supporting the clinical development of METTL3 inhibitors for ACC treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
The melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R) is a G protein-coupled receptor that regulates energy homeostasis. Pathogenic MC4R variants represent the most common cause of monogenic obesity and are frequently associated with increased linear growth. However, the mechanisms linking MC4R signaling to somatic growth remain incompletely understood. We report a child with severe growth hormone deficiency (GHD) carrying a heterozygous MC4R variant (c.496G>A; p.V166I), in whom recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) therapy triggered an unexpectedly exaggerated clinical and biochemical response, suggesting a potential pharmacogenetic interaction between MC4R signaling and the GH/IGF-1 axis.The male patient was first evaluated at 1 month of age due to micropenis and diagnosed with multiple pituitary hormone deficiencies. At 57 months of age, his height was 97.3 cm (-2.56 SDS) and annual growth velocity was 4.1 cm/year (<-2 SDS); rhGH (somatropin) therapy was initiated. Despite severe biochemically confirmed GHD, rhGH at 0.03 mg/kg/day triggered an exaggerated response: IGF-1 levels increased from -3.35 SDS to +8.00 SDS. Concurrently, his height velocity accelerated to 16 cm/year, and his bone age rapidly advanced by approximately 4 years over a 23-month period, culminating in mandibular prognathism.The coexistence of severe GHD and an MC4R variant is rarely described, and such a pronounced response to rhGH has not previously been reported. These findings suggest that MC4R p.V166I may modulate peripheral GH/IGF-1 signaling and act as a pharmacogenetic modifier of GH responsiveness. Careful rhGH dose titration with close IGF-1 monitoring may be considered in patients carrying the MC4R p.V166I variant.© 2026 Walter de Gruyter GmbH, Berlin/Boston.
The classic paradigm of somatotropic-gonadal axis synergy in pubertal bone acquisition lacks validation in central precocious puberty (CPP), and the driver of the significant bone turnover marker (BTM) heterogeneity in this population is unknown.To investigate the independent and potential synergistic associations of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and peak luteinizing hormone (LH) with BTMs in girls with CPP.This retrospective cohort included 190 treatment-naïve girls with CPP. Participants were stratified into Low, Medium, and High bone turnover groups based on tertiles of a bone age-standardized composite Z-score of bone gla protein (BGP) and β-C-terminal telopeptide (β-CTX). We used multiple linear regression adjusted for chronological age, supplemented by E-value analysis.Marked BTM heterogeneity was confirmed (p for trend < 0.001). IGF-1 and peak LH levels exhibited significant graded increases across groups (p for trend = 0.003 and 0.030). After age-adjustment, IGF-1 independently correlated with both BGP (β = 0.069, p = 0.005) and β-CTX (β = 0.001, p = 0.030), while peak LH associated only with BGP (β = 0.411, p = 0.026). Critically, the IGF-1 × LH peak interaction was non-significant (p = 0.655 and 0.791 for BGP and β-CTX, respectively). In contrast, glucolipid metabolic parameters showed no differences, arguing against their major role and highlighting neuroendocrine specificity.In this cross-sectional study of girls with CPP, heterogeneity in bone turnover was more strongly and consistently associated with the somatotropic axis (IGF-1) than with gonadotropin activity, and no significant synergy was observed. These findings suggest a potential shift toward a somatotropic-dominant mechanism in the context of pathological pubertal acceleration, highlight IGF-1 as a pivotal biomarker for skeletal metabolism assessment, and challenge the classical paradigm of somatotropic-gonadal axis collaboration.​ The proposed mechanism requires validation in longitudinal studies.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Jiang, Li and Li.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) requires robust biomarkers. To overcome the limitations of bulk sequencing, we integrated single-cell eQTL mapping with Mendelian randomization to identify causal cell populations and genes. CD8 Teff cells were expanded in peripheral blood, showing elevation in non-DR diabetes and reaching maximal levels in DR. Mendelian randomization analysis implicated IL2RB as a putative causal marker, with the lead eQTL SNP rs3184504 demonstrating strong association (p = 8.5467 × 10-18). Colocalization analysis with DR GWAS and validation in bulk data reinforced this signal. In tissues, CellChat predicted more interactions for IL2RB+ compared to IL2RB- CD8 Teff cells, including IL16-CD4 with macrophages and NAMPT interactions with both ITGA5+ITGB1 and INSR on endothelial cells, implicating immune-vascular regulation. Together, these findings nominate IL2RB as a biomarker and therapeutic target while clarifying mechanisms underlying DR.
Frailty, defined as increased vulnerability to stressors and impaired recovery of homeostasis, poses a major health challenge among older and multimorbid adults. Frailty is also observed in middle-aged and disease-free adults, though evidence remains scarce. Understanding the physiological characteristics of frail individuals free of chronic diseases may inform about the underlying mechanisms of frailty and its clinical management. We assessed frailty in a large disease-free middle-aged cohort and examined the associations of markers of physiological function with frailty. We analyzed data from 117,163 middle-aged adults (mean age 53.9 ± 8.0 years) free of known chronic conditions from the UK Biobank. Associations between frailty status (robust, prefrail, frail; defined using the Fried Frailty Phenotype) and 29 physiological markers were examined using multinomial logistic regression adjusted for sociodemographic and lifestyle factors. Overall, 1,293 (1.1%) participants were frail and 38,401 (32.8%) prefrail. Anthropometric measures (body fat % waist-to-hip ratio), triglycerides, some markers of hepatic (gamma-glutamyl transferase, alkaline phosphatase) and renal function (cystatin C), glucose metabolism (HbA1c), inflammation (hsCRP), and white blood cell count including leukocyte and neutrophil count and the neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio were directly associated with frailty. In contrast, blood pressure, lung function markers (FEV1, FVC), other hepatic (aspartate aminotransferase, bilirubin) and renal markers (creatinine and creatinine-to-cystatin C ratio), and the endocrine marker IGF-1 were inversely associated with frailty. Associations were generally similar but weaker for prefrailty. Frailty in disease-free middle-aged adults was associated with multisystem physiological alterations resembling those observed in older and multimorbid populations, suggesting early physiological dysregulation preceding clinically manifest chronic disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Long-term excessive fluoride ingestion may lead to skeletal fluorosis, a disease characterized by unclear pathogenesis and lack of effective cure. Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles (BMSCs-EVs) exert a crucial regulatory effect on bone remodeling and have broad clinical application prospects. Whether BMSCs-EVs can participate in the occurrence and development of skeletal fluorosis by transferring miRNAs is a scientific question worth exploring. In this study, miRNA sequencing was used to screen for differentially expressed miRNAs in fluoride-exposed rBMSCs-EVs (F-EVs). The top 15 differentially expressed miRNAs were subjected to target gene prediction, and GO and KEGG analyses as well as PPI network construction were performed. On this basis, miR-320-3p was selected for in-depth study. First, our data revealed that miR-320-3p was upregulated in fluoride-exposed osteoblasts and was involved in the enhancement of fluoride-induced osteogenic differentiation. Subsequently, a tracing experiment confirmed that rBMSCs-EVs and their miR-320-3p could be successfully taken up by fluoride-exposed osteoblasts. Then, elevated levels of miR-320-3p in F-EVs could further promote the enhancement of fluoride-induced osteogenic differentiation, while EVs with inhibited miR-320-3p exerted a significant inhibitory effect. Mechanism studies revealed that under fluoride exposure, rBMSCs-EVs could regulate Igf1r/ERK1/2/MAPK by transferring miR-320-3p, thereby affecting osteogenic differentiation. This study is the first to elucidate the pathogenesis of skeletal fluorosis from the rBMSCs-EVs miRNAs and provides new ideas for the clinical management of skeletal fluorosis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
CDC42 is involved in multiple signaling pathways, including actin organization and polarity. We previously reported progressive sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) in inner ear hair cell (HC)-specific Cdc42-knockout (Atho1-Cre+/-;Cdc42flox/flox) mice. However, the phenotype was milder than expected, suggesting possible redundancy with other Rho-family GTPases. Thereafter, Takenouchi-Kosaki syndrome (TKS), caused by de novo CDC42 mutations and manifesting as SNHL, was reported, in which the p.Y64C mutation was speculated to be constitutively active. However, the relationship between CDC42 status and hearing phenotypes in TKS remains unclear. Using cell models, mouse models, and patient data, we propose that impaired and/or dysregulated cycling between GDP/inactive and GTP/active forms, through either loss-of-function or constitutive activation, can lead to SNHL. Furthermore, to test redundancy, we generated HC-specific Cdc42;RhoQ double-knockout (Atho1-Cre+/-;Cdc42flox/flox;RhoQflox/flox) mice, which revealed synergistic roles of CDC42 and RHOQ in cochlear HCs. Supporting this synergy, MDCK cells with CDC42 and RHOQ double knockdown showed greater phospho-cofilin, a key regulator of actin turnover, elevation than single knockdowns.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
We examined the role of HBsAg isoforms to predict HBsAg seroclearance or finite treatment among patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB) infection who stopped long-term nucleoside analogue (NUC).This prospective study recruited patients with HBeAg-negative non-cirrhotic CHB on ≥3 years of first-line NUC with NUC cessation. NUC was resumed upon clinical relapse (CR) or major virological rebound (mVR). HBV biomarkers were measured at baseline, CR or mVR (if any), and end-of-follow-up. The primary outcome was HBsAg seroclearance (defined as <0.05 IU/mL). Patients were followed up for ≥1 year after NUC cessation (without CR/mVR) or ≥1 year after ALT normalization (with CR/mVR), whichever was later. Finite treatment was defined as a state of no virological relapse (VR), i.e., persistent HBV DNA <2000 IU/mL or HBsAg seroclearance.Among 51 patients who completed study (median age 50.1, 62.7% male, baseline qHBsAg 298 IU/mL with 25.5% <100 IU/mL, median NUC duration 7.38 years; median follow-up 91 weeks), 6 patients developed HBsAg seroclearance at weeks 20, 24, 48, 81, 91 and 96, with an event rate of 11.7%. Baseline small HBsAg [SHBs] was predictive of HBsAg seroclearance (HR 0.205, 95% CI 0.082-0.514) and identified 62.5% patients who achieved HBsAg seroclearance when combined with criteria of quantitative HBsAg (qHBsAg) <100 IU/mL. Fifteen patients fulfilled finite treatment criteria, which was associated with low baseline SHBs (HR 3.471, 95% CI 1.132-10.647) and the presence of hepatic steatosis (HR 4.077, 95% CI 1.374-12.098). No patients developed hepatic decompensation.Baseline small HBs (SHBs) levels, in addition to quantitative HBsAg levels, were predictive of HBsAg seroclearance. SHBs levels and hepatic steatosis were associated with finite treatment following nucleoside analogue cessation.Stopping long-term nucleoside analogue (NUC) is one of the strategies to enhance host control to hepatitis B virus and target for functional cure. In addition to quantitative HBsAg (qHBsAg) levels, we explored the role of HBsAg isoforms in predicting off-therapy outcomes in this prospective cohort study involving Asian patients with chronic hepatitis B infection. Low small HBs, a surrogate marker of integrated DNA-derived HBsAg, was predictive of off-NUC HBsAg seroclearance and identified 62.5% patients who would develop HBsAg seroclearance when combined with qHBsAg <100 IU/mL. Finite treatment, defined as either HBsAg seroclearance or viral load maintained below 2,000 IU/mL after NUC cessation, was associated with low baseline SHBs and presence of hepatic steatosis. Combining qHBsAg <100 IU/mL with low baseline SHBs identified 87.5% patients who could achieve finite treatment. These findings are most compelling to hepatologists and other clinicians managing patients with chronic hepatitis B infection on NUC or researchers conducting clinical trials. The findings are of academic relevance to researchers to investigate the correlation between SHBs expression with intrahepatic viral reservoir as well as the immunological basis behind virological control after NUC cessation. However, the study was limited by a relatively small sample size and the inclusion of purely Asian patients, requiring confirmation in larger cohorts for validation of findings before incorporation into clinical guidelines.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Preeclampsia (PE) is a gestational hypertension disorder emerging after 20 weeks of pregnancy, complicating 5-8% of pregnancies and representing a leading cause of maternal-fetal morbidity and mortality. Despite its clinical significance, the etiology and pathogenesis of PE remain obscure. Sorting nexin 9 (SNX9), a key regulator of intracellular trafficking and endomembrane dynamics, has been poorly explored in reproductive physiology. This study investigates the role of SNX9 in PE, demonstrating significant downregulation of SNX9 in decidual tissues from preeclamptic patients. In vitro decidualization models showed SNX9 expression correlated with decidualization progression, as evidenced by upregulation of decidual markers (IGFBP1, PRL), while SNX9 knockdown impaired decidualization. Transwell assays revealed that aberrant SNX9 expression restricted trophoblast invasion into endometrial stromal cells. In pregnant mice, SNX9 expression in decidual tissues positively correlated with decidualization regulators (Wnt4, Bmp2) and markers (Prl8a2, Dtprp). Consistent expression patterns were observed in pseudopregnant mice after artificial decidualization induction, excluding embryonic influences. Collectively, these findings establish SNX9 as essential for normal decidualization, with dysregulated SNX9 potentially contributing to PE pathogenesis. This study uncovers a novel link between endomembrane dynamics and PE, providing insights into its molecular mechanisms.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for Reproduction and Fertility. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
The impact of baseline liver fibrosis severity on the effectiveness of pegylated interferon (Peg-IFN) combined with nucleos(t)ide analogs (NAs) in the treatment of hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-positive chronic hepatitis B (CHB) has not been fully clarified. This study aimed to investigate whether the effectiveness of this combination therapy differed according to the severity of baseline liver fibrosis.A total of 172 HBeAg-positive CHB patients receiving Peg-IFN plus NAs were stratified according to non-invasive fibrosis markers (aspartate aminotransferase-to-platelet ratio index [APRI] and fibrosis-4 index [FIB-4]) into three groups: no significant fibrosis (n = 75), significant fibrosis (n = 70), and advanced fibrosis/cirrhosis (n = 27). The primary outcome was the HBeAg clearance rate at 24 months of treatment. Secondary outcomes included the hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) clearance rate, the rate of HBsAg level decline > 1.0 log10, virological response, and improvement in non-invasive fibrosis indices.At 24 months, HBsAg clearance and complete virological response rates were comparable across the three groups. Cumulative HBeAg clearance rates differed significantly (log-rank P = 0.027): 16.00%, 30.00%, and 40.74% in the three groups, respectively, with Group 3 higher than Groups 1 and 2. Multivariate analysis identified a significantly higher likelihood of HBeAg clearance in Group 3 versus Group 1 (adjusted odds ratio = 6.373, 95% confidence interval: 1.288-31.531, P = 0.023). Additionally, analysis of liver fibrosis outcomes showed that patients with more severe baseline fibrosis had a higher proportion of improvement in non-invasive fibrosis indices, with 95.00% in Group 3, while 42.98% of the overall cohort achieved fibrosis improvement.Baseline fibrosis severity is associated with higher HBeAg clearance and greater improvement in non-invasive fibrosis indices during Peg-IFN plus NAs therapy in HBeAg-positive CHB.© 2026 Authors.
Predictors of target lesion failure (TLF) after percutaneous coronary intervention with drug-coated balloon therapy in patients with in-stent restenosis, as opposed to de novo disease, are limited. This post hoc analysis of the AGENT IDE trial (Agent Paclitaxel-Coated PTCA Balloon Catheter for the Treatment of Subjects With In-Stent Restenosis) aimed to identify predictors of TLF in patients with in-stent restenosis treated with a paclitaxel-coated balloon.Of the 600 patients with in-stent restenosis in the AGENT IDE trial, 406 were randomized to treatment with the paclitaxel-coated balloon. Among this cohort, demographic, clinical, and core laboratory angiographic data were assessed using a Cox proportional hazards model to identify independent predictors of TLF, defined as the composite occurrence of ischemia-driven target lesion revascularization, target vessel-related myocardial infarction, or cardiac death, at 2-year follow-up.Independent risk factors for 2-year TLF, which occurred in 106 (27.0%) of patients, included multiple stent layers (hazard ratio, 1.80 [95% CI, 1.23-2.65]), White race (hazard ratio, 1.71 [95% CI, 1.03-2.85]), and postlesion preparation in-lesion % diameter stenosis (per 10% increment; hazard ratio, 1.16 [95% CI, 1.03-1.31]). The presence of the target lesion in the left anterior descending artery was associated with a reduced risk of 2-year TLF (hazard ratio, 0.56 [95% CI, 0.36-0.87]).Our findings highlight the variable risk of in-stent restenosis governed by relatively few patient and lesion factors and underscore the significance of optimal lesion preparation before drug-coated balloon therapy as a potentially modifiable factor.URL: https://www.clinicaltrials.gov; Unique identifier: NCT04647253.
Recurrent spontaneous abortion (RSA) is a major reproductive health challenge with limited clinical options. Curcumin, a natural polyphenol widely consumed as a dietary supplement, has shown promise in improving pregnancy outcomes; however, its specific molecular targets remain obscure due to its broad bioactivity. This study aimed to define curcumin's impact on RSA and identify its direct molecular target to provide a mechanistic basis for its nutritional application. We employed an integrated approach combining phenotypic analysis in the RSA mouse model and target discovery in human endometrial stromal cells. Target identification was performed using unbiased Limited Proteolysis-Mass Spectrometry (LiP-MS). The interaction between curcumin and the identified target, BRD4, was confirmed through molecular docking, dynamics simulations, functional genetics, and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP-qPCR). Functional outcomes were assessed by measuring key ferroptosis markers and mitochondrial morphology using transmission electron microscopy. Decidualization was analyzed in both mouse tissues and cells subjected to a decidualization and ferroptosis induction protocol. Curcumin significantly reduced embryo resorption and restored decidual morphology and marker expression (PRL and IGFBP1) in RSA mice. LiP-MS analysis in human decidual stromal cells identified ferroptosis as the primary pathway targeted by curcumin. Both in vivo and in vitro validation showed that curcumin inhibits ferroptosis, decreasing lipid peroxidation, restoring glutathione balance, and preserving mitochondrial integrity, which in turn rescued decidual marker expression. Proteomic integration with ferroptosis databases identified BRD4 as a central hub. Mechanistically, curcumin binds BRD4, thereby suppressing BRD4-driven expression of TFRC and ACSL4, which blocks ferroptosis and rescues decidual markers. This research uncovers a BRD4-driven ferroptosis pathway as a key pathogenic mechanism in RSA. Our results demonstrate that curcumin acts as an epigenetic modulator by directly targeting BRD4, thereby suppressing this pro-ferroptotic transcriptional program. These findings provide critical mechanistic evidence supporting curcumin as an evidence-based nutritional intervention for RSA.© 2026 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
To clarify the role of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4)-mediated ferroptosis in curcumin-treated papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) cells and explore the underlying mechanisms. GPX4 expression and clinical relevance were analysed in 54 PTC tissues by immunohistochemistry. B-CPAP cells were used to assess proliferation, migration, apoptosis and cell cycle after curcumin treatment. Ferroptosis was evaluated by detecting malondialdehyde (MDA), reactive oxygen species (ROS), Fe2⁺ and glutathione (GSH) levels, with ferrostatin 1 (Fer-1) and agonists (RSL3) used for validation. Molecular docking and Western blot were performed to analyse GPX4 interaction and expression. A nude mouse xenograft model was established to evaluate in vivo effects. Elevated GPX4 expression correlated with poor prognosis in PTC, including increased lymph node and distant metastasis and reduced progression-free survival. In vitro studies showed that curcumin downregulated GPX4 and induced ferroptotic features, including increased MDA and ROS, elevated Fe2⁺ and decreased GSH. These changes were accompanied by inhibited proliferation and migration, as well as G2/M arrest. Importantly, the ferroptosis inhibitor Fer-1 reversed curcumin-induced cell death and partially restored migration, confirming ferroptosis as the primary anticancer mechanism. Molecular docking analysis suggested a possible interaction between curcumin and the GPX4 protein at the Gln-55 and Pro-155 residues; however, this prediction was not experimentally validated in the present study. Importantly, GPX4 overexpression partially rescued curcumin-induced loss of cell viability and lipid peroxidation, supporting a functional role for GPX4 in curcumin-induced ferroptosis. In vivo experiments showed that curcumin significantly suppressed tumour growth in the xenograft model without observable organ toxicity and reduced GPX4 expression in tumour tissues. This study shows that curcumin inhibits PTC progression via GPX4-mediated ferroptosis; GPX4 overexpression partially reversed these effects, supporting its functional role. These findings identify curcumin as a promising therapeutic agent for PTC treatment and suggest GPX4 as a potential therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Finite therapy resulting in sustained hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) loss for patients with chronic HBV infection (CHB) is an important therapeutic goal. In patients with HBeAg-negative infection, nucleos(t)ide analogue (NA) withdrawal may achieve HBsAg loss in 5-20% of patients after 3 years. Pegylated interferon (PEG-IFNa) is a recognised treatment for CHB.NUC-B was a randomised, multi-centre trial in NA-treated non-cirrhotic HBeAg negative patients with CHB. Patients were allocated to either NA withdrawal alone (control) or NA withdrawal followed by a 16 week course of PEG-IFNa 180ug weekly commencing 4 weeks after NA cessation (PEG-IFNa). The primary endpoint was HBsAg loss at 3 years.The target recruitment of 240 patients was not achieved. 156 patients, 82 to control arm , 74 to PEG-IFNa arm , were recruited between 2017 and 2021; median age 45 years, 24% female, HBV Genotypes -A 16%, B 6%, C 4%, D 24%, E 22%, other 1%, unknown 26%. At 3 years 3% of patients in the contol arm and 14% of patients in the PEG-IFNa arm lost HBsAg (odds ratio 5.39; 95% confidence interval, (1.11, 26.19); p=0.037). In the control arm 34.9% of patients returned to NA therapy compared to 28.4% in the PEG_IFNa- arm. Exaggerated flares occurred in 27.9% of patients in the control arm compared with 13.4% in the PEG-IFNa arm.The use of adjuvant PEG-IFNa therapy after withdrawal of NA therapy increases the rate of HBsAg loss whilst simultaneously reducing the number of exaggerated flares.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Human facial emotion recognition (FER) is a vibrant research field. This research proposes a novel, biologically inspired hybrid FER framework that uniquely connects event-driven Spiking Neural Networks (SNNs) with deep learning, specifically a Spike-based Support Vector Machine (S-SVM), which is designed for its event-driven processing and energy efficiency. The article proposes a novel SNN-based framework for FER that extracts robust image features using a Vision Transformer (ViT). Spikes are generated from the features using the rate-and-threshold encoding technique. The core algorithmic novelty lies in the integration of Leaky Integrate-and-Fire (LIF) and Quadratic Integrate-and-Fire (QIF) neurons, which are used in S-SVM, creating a highly optimized decision boundary in the spike domain. The goal is to determine which neuron performs best, as confirmed by the CK+ dataset. The same technique was validated on RAF-CE, a unprocessed dataset derived from real-world events and movie scenes. The approach was validated on the CK+ dataset, achieving 99.14% and 99.94% accuracy for the QIF and LIF neurons, respectively. For the compound emotions in the unprocessed dataset, which are hard to distinguish, the accuracy rates achieved with QIF and LIF neurons are 78.87% and 98.91%, respectively. In the FER system, the LIF neuron with an S-SVM classifier performs better than the LIF neuron. This hybrid design's capacity to provide cutting-edge FER accuracy while also enabling previously unheard-of energy efficiency gains of 99.52% for CK+ and 99.60% for RAF-CE when compared to traditional deep learning models is its primary significance.Copyright © 2026 Sekar and Nersisson.
Currently, there is no effective treatment to reverse hepatitis B-related liver fibrosis or cirrhosis. Current nucleos(t)ide analogs (NAs) control but rarely eliminate hepatitis B virus (HBV), leaving chronic hepatitis B at risk of developing liver fibrosis/cirrhosis. Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) shows promise in slowing the progression of hepatitis B-related liver fibrosis/cirrhosis, but its impact on immune function remains debated.The electronic databases, including Chinese National Knowledge Infrastructure, Wanfang, SinoMed, Weipu, PubMed, Web of Science, EMBASE, and Cochrane databases, were retrieved (April 7, 2026), and the randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that met the inclusion criteria were included. Methodologic quality assessment of the included RCTs was done based on the Cochrane RoB 2 tool. Subsequently, the valid data were screened and analyzed by meta-analysis with Review Manager 5.4.1, and the quality of the evidence was assessed using the GRADE method. This study was registered in the PROSPERO (CRD420261351373).Finally, 25 RCTs were included, containing 2,585 patients with hepatitis B-related liver fibrosis or cirrhosis. Risk of bias evaluations suggested some concerns for the majority of RCTs. The results of meta-analysis indicated that TCM with NAs could improve CD3 + [MD = 5.83, 95%CI (3.93, 7.73), p < 0.00001], CD4 + [MD = 4.32, 95%CI (3.56, 5.08), p < 0.00001], CD4+/CD8 + [MD = 0.24, 95%CI (0.18, 0.29), p < 0.00001], and NK cells, and decrease CD8 + cells [MD = -2.67, 95%CI (-3.46, -1.89), p < 0.00001], interleukin (IL)-6, transforming growth factor (TGF-β), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), hyaluronic acid (HA), laminin (LN), type IV collagen (IV-C), type III procollagen (PC-III), liver stiffness measurement (LSM), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), total bilirubin, and albumin in serum compared with NAs alone. Moreover, descriptive data showed that TCM was safe, and the funnel plot suggested the included research might have slight publication bias. The GRADE classification showed that the certainty of evidence was low for the immune function, liver function, and liver fibrosis indexes.A combination of NAs and TCM could improve immune cell metrics, cytokines, liver function indexes, and liver fibrosis indexes of patients with hepatitis B-related liver fibrosis or cirrhosis. Due to the low quality of research, more high-quality RCTs are needed to improve the level of evidence.https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/view/CRD420261351373.Copyright © 2026 Wu, Tan, Luo, Liu, Zhang, Wang and Lai.
Diseases of the skin and subcutaneous tissue represent a crucial yet understudied contributor to morbidity and mortality, particularly in older adults. Despite an aging population and substantial disease burden, national mortality patterns, temporal trends, and demographic disparities remain poorly described.This study utilized CDC WONDER Underlying Cause of Death data from 1968 to 2023 to identify deaths amongst U.S adults aged ≥65 years attributed to skin and subcutaneous tissue diseases. Age-adjusted mortality rates (AAMRs) per 100,000, crude mortality rates (CMRs) per 100,000, average annual percent change (AAPC), and annual percent change (APC) by period were calculated and stratified by sex, race, age, census region, and state.A total of 161,822 deaths from skin and subcutaneous tissue disease occurred among U.S. adults ≥65 years from 1968 to 2023. Overall AAMRs increased from 6.74 in 1968 to 9.83 in 2023 (AAPC: 0.91; 95% CI: 0.76 to 1.12, p < 0.001), and the greatest rate of increase in AAMRs was from 7.60 in 2017 to 9.83 in 2023 (APC: 5.65; 95% CI: 3.60 to 10.14, p < 0.001). Women had a similar mean AAMR (9.10) to men (8.75); however, men had a greater rise in AAMR, increasing from 6.41 in 1968 to 10.00 in 2023 (AAPC: 1.17; 95% CI 1.01 to 1.39, p < 0.001). White Americans had a lower mean AAMR (7.87) than Black or African Americans (23.15), but had a greater rise in AAMR, increasing from 6.37 in 1968 to 9.59 in 2023 (AAPC: 1.02; 95% CI 0.87 to 1.20, p < 0.001). Regionally, the South had the greatest mean AAMR (10.72), but had the lowest rate of increase in AAMR, increasing from 8.23 in 1968 to 9.54 in 2023 (AAPC: 0.65; 95% CI: 0.47 to 0.90, p < 0.001). State-wise deaths were highest in New York (n = 12,682, 7.92%) and lowest in Alaska (n = 119, 0.07%).Skin and subcutaneous tissue-related disease mortality significantly rose from 1968 to 2023, with recent mortality trends highlighting a cause for concern. The marked heterogeneity in disease burden between demographic and geographical groups highlights the urgent need for equitable and targeted public health interventions.Copyright © 2026 National Medical Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The olfactory system plays a critical role in modulating social cognition, with the anterior piriform cortex (aPC) serving as a key hub. However, the specific contribution of aPC pyramidal neurons to social regulation remains poorly understood.In this study, we selectively silenced these neurons in C57BL/6J mice using a genetic apoptosis approach. TUNEL staining confirmed the specific loss of targeted neurons in the experimental group. The buried food test and the Go/No-Go odor discrimination assay were used to verify the effects of aPC pyramidal neuron apoptosis on the olfactory ability of mice. The three-chamber social test was used to assess the sociability and social novelty recognition ability of mice. The open field test was used to assess the locomotor ability and anxiety level of mice.Buried food and Go/No-Go odor discrimination assays revealed deficits in both olfactory sensitivity and complex odor discrimination. Results from three-chamber tests indicated that while basic sociability remained intact, social novelty recognition was significantly impaired. Notably, no impairments in anxiety or motor function were observed.These findings demonstrate that aPC pyramidal neurons are essential for mediating olfactory discrimination and social novelty recognition, identifying them as a core node within the olfactory-social cognition circuit and a potential therapeutic target for interventions addressing social cognitive impairments.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Criteria for arrhythmia classification in horses are insufficient, particularly when differentiating atrial premature complexes (APCs) from sinus arrhythmia (SA). This study investigated RR and PP interval changes between SA, APCs, and ventricular premature complexes (VPCs).30 resting ECGs were reviewed: 10 each containing SA, APC, and VPC. Sequences of 10 RR and PP intervals were recorded for each arrhythmia (20 events/ECG). Percent RR and PP deviations were calculated (1) between sequential intervals (%ΔSEQPP and %ΔSEQRR, respectively) and (2) compared to averaged baseline intervals 1 to 3 (%ΔAVGPP and %ΔAVGRR, respectively). Percent RR and PP deviations were compared between arrhythmias with 2-way ANOVA and receiver operator characteristic curve analysis.Cycle length variation differentiated SA from APCs and VPCs in the degree of prematurity and return cycle length by use of both RR and PP intervals. The %ΔAVGRR, %ΔSEQPP, and %ΔAVGPP performed better than %ΔSEQRR for differentiating SA from APCs in degree of prematurity, while return cycle length was differentiated clearly with all 4 methods. Using %ΔSEQPP, the degree of prematurity and return cycle length of APCs differed from both SA and VPCs. Using %ΔAVGRR and %ΔAVGPP removed the influence of the degree of prematurity on the return cycle length variation. Variability of the sinus cycle lengths (PP7 to 10) following VPCs and SA was noted.The addition of PP intervals to cycle length variation analyses provided additional discriminatory capacity, particularly between APCs and SA. Classification bias was a limitation.Evaluation of cycle length variation was a useful adjunct tool for resting ECG classification of SA, APCs, and VPCs.
Portal hypertension is a central driver of morbidity and mortality in advanced chronic liver disease, yet its contribution to death is frequently underestimated owing to underreporting on death certificates. Population-level data on portal hypertension-related mortality trends and disparities in the United States remain limited. We conducted a retrospective, population-based mortality study using the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Wide-ranging Online Data for Epidemiologic Research Multiple Cause of Death database, identifying deaths with International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems, 10th Revision code K76.6 listed in any cause-of-death field from 1999 to 2023. Crude and age-adjusted mortality rates per 100,000 population were calculated and stratified by sex, U.S. Census region, race/ethnicity, and urban-rural status (the latter restricted to 1999-2020 due to data availability). Temporal trends were assessed using Joinpoint regression, with annual percent change (APC) reported as the primary trend metric and 95% confidence intervals presented for all estimates. A total of 34,551 portal hypertension-related deaths were identified. Overall age-adjusted mortality rates declined sharply from 1999 to 2002 (APC - 12.85%), plateaued for more than a decade, and rose thereafter. Mortality increased significantly in women after 2009 (APC + 6.69%) and in men after 2013 (APC + 6.18%). Among racial and ethnic groups, Hispanic or Latino individuals consistently demonstrated the highest mortality burden throughout the study period, followed by White individuals, whereas Black or African American individuals exhibited comparatively lower but significantly rising rates from 2006 onward. White individuals demonstrated the steepest recent acceleration, with a significant increase after 2014 (APC + 8.51%). Regionally, the South experienced the steepest post-2013 increase, while the Northeast retained the lowest absolute rates despite a significant rise after 2014. Urban populations showed early improvement through 2014 followed by rising mortality, whereas rural populations experienced a later but steeper rise beginning around 2013, with widening urban-rural disparities over time. Portal hypertension-related mortality has risen significantly since the mid-2010s across all demographic and geographic subgroups, with disproportionate burdens among Hispanic individuals, men, rural populations, and residents of the Southern United States. These findings highlight the urgent need for targeted prevention strategies, equitable access to hepatology care, and aggressive management of metabolic and alcohol-related risk factors to reverse this trajectory.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Respiratory infections and tuberculosis are leading causes of global morbidity and mortality; yet comprehensive research on their associated risk factors remains limited, hindering the development of effective preventive strategies.The 2021 Global Burden of Disease data from 204 countries (1990-2021) was used to measure deaths, disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), and their age-standardized rates (ASMR and ASDR) tied to 9 risk factors. The trends were analyzed by age, gender, and socio-demographic index (SDI) regions, with annual and average annual percentage changes (APC, AAPC) used to track changes over time.Globally, mortality rates (ASMR) for respiratory infections and tuberculosis linked to traditional risks-malnutrition, air pollution, and alcohol use-declined significantly; annual decreases of 4.46%, 3.18%, and 3.35%, respectively. Deaths attributed to metabolic risks like high BMI and blood sugar increased, despite falling ASMR. Geographic disparities were notable: Lesotho saw the sharpest rise in BMI-related mortality (3.92%), while Hungary had the steepest decline (-7.4%). Men faced a higher burden from behavioral risks, with tobacco-related mortality 3.6 times higher than in women. Children under 5 years were especially vulnerable to environmental risks, with unsafe water and sanitation contributing to a 4.55% annual decline in mortality rates.This study highlights the need for targeted actions, such as tobacco control in high-middle SDI regions, air quality improvements in South Asia, and nutrition programs in Sub-Saharan Africa. It offers a precise public health framework to reduce respiratory infections and tuberculosis, and promote global health equity by analyzing sociodemographic and time trends.Copyright (c) 2026 Shareli Caikai, Jing Jiang, Yi Shi, Hongli Zhang, Sicheng Xu.
Recent studies suggest shifting epidemiological patterns in hepatobiliary cancers (HBC), with an increasing incidence among younger populations. This study evaluated incidence and mortality trends of HBC in adolescents and young adults (AYA) in the United States.We conducted a retrospective population-based study using SEER 21 Registries. Individuals aged 15 to 39 years diagnosed with liver and intrahepatic bile duct cancers from 2000 to 2022 were included. Adults aged 40 to 64 years served as a comparator group. Age-adjusted incidence (AAI) and mortality rates (MR) per 100,000 were calculated, and trends were analyzed using annual percent change (APC).Among AYA, AAI increased from 0.34 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.29-0.40) per 100,000 in 2000 to 0.56 (95% CI 0.49-0.63) in 2022. This was driven by an increase among females: APC 3.18%, 95% CI 2.24-4.30. Hispanic females had the greatest increase, with an APC of 6.96% (95% CI 4.07-20.03). The incidence in adults aged 40 to 64 years peaked in 2014 and declined thereafter. Mortality increased in AYA females (APC 0.99%, 95% CI 0.27-1.75), while remaining stable in males.HBC incidence is rising among AYAs in the United States, disproportionately affecting females, especially Hispanic women, and is accompanied by increasing mortality. Further research is needed to identify underlying causes, including potential metabolic risk factors.
Anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) fusions are established oncogenic drivers and therapeutic targets in multiple malignancies, including non-small cell lung cancer but are rare in colorectal cancer (CRC). Although ALK fusions in CRC have been associated with sensitivity to ALK inhibitors, their broader genomic context remains incompletely defined. We aimed to characterize the prevalence, clinicogenomic features, and therapeutic implications of ALK fusions in advanced CRC.Comprehensive genomic profiling using hybrid capture-based next-generation sequencing was performed on 56,206 advanced CRC tumors to identify alterations, including ALK fusions. Microsatellite instability (MSI)/mismatch repair (MMR) status, tumor mutational burden (TMB), genomic ancestry, COSMIC trinucleotide signatures, and homologous recombination deficiency (HRD) signatures were derived from sequencing data. PD-L1 expression was assessed by immunohistochemistry.ALK fusions were identified in 63 tumors (0.1%). Compared with ALK fusion-negative CRC, ALK fusion-positive (ALKfus+) tumors demonstrated enrichment for MSI-high/MMR-deficient status and high TMB, with numerically higher PD-L1 expression. In contrast, canonical CRC driver alterations were markedly depleted, including KRAS, APC, and PIK3CA mutations.ALK fusions define a rare but biologically distinct subset of CRC characterized by frequent MSI-high/MMR-deficient status and a unique genomic landscape. These findings support comprehensive genomic profiling to identify ALK fusions in CRC, which may inform the use of ALK-directed therapies, and highlight the frequent co-occurrence of MSI-high disease within this subgroup.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42562242 is a review article
This study aimed to use the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) 2021 Study to analyse the trends in the disease burden of lip and oral cavity cancer (LOCC) at the global, regional, and national levels (1990-2021); to quantify the impacts of population growth, aging, and epidemiological changes on incidence, prevalence, mortality, and disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs); assess health inequalities associated with the Socio-demographic Index (SDI) across countries; and predict the burden trends up to 2050 based on the Bayesian age-period-cohort model (BAPC) model.Data from the GBD 2021 Study were included in the age-period-cohort (APC) model to evaluate the effects of age, period, and cohort. Decomposition analysis was used to determine the influencing factors.The global burden of LOCC showed a 'high north, heavy south' bimodal distribution with significant sex differences. Decomposition analyses indicated aging and population growth drive increased morbidity and prevalence, whereas epidemiological changes reduce mortality and DALYs. Absolute inequalities measured using the slope index of inequality (SII) revealed indicating persistent SDI-related absolute inequalities. Concurrently, the concentration index (CI) showed that prevalence remained concentrated in high-SDI settings (CI: 0.26-0.13), whereas mortality and DALYs became increasingly concentrated in low-SDI settings. Projections to 2050 show upward trends in age-standardized incidence rate (ASIR), age-standardized prevalence rate (ASPR), age-standardized mortality rate (ASMR), and age-standardized DALYs rate (ASDR).Global LOCC showed increasing incidence and prevalence alongside declining mortality and DALYs from 1990 to 2021, with higher burden in males. Population aging and prevalence increases, whereas epidemiological changes mitigated mortality. BAPC projections indicate increases across all indicators by 2050. SDI-stratified strategies are required: human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccination and screening for high-SDI regions; tobacco control for middle-SDI regions; betel quid regulation and primary care investment for low-SDI regions; and ultraviolet (UV) protection for lip cancer hotspots.Not applicable.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To describe Pregnancy Mortality Surveillance System (PMSS)-identified underlying causes of pregnancy-related deaths and changes over time in the overall and cause-specific pregnancy-related mortality ratios in the United States, 2005-2024.For this descriptive study, all pregnancy-related deaths were identified in the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's PMSS from 2005 to 2024. The PMSS has nine mutually exclusive underlying cause-of-death categories: hemorrhage, infection or sepsis, amniotic fluid embolism, thrombotic pulmonary or other embolisms, hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, anesthesia complications, cerebrovascular accidents, cardiovascular conditions (including cardiomyopathy), and other noncardiovascular medical conditions. Beginning with 2020 data, a new cause-of-death code specific for coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) was added to the infection or sepsis category. Cause-specific proportionate mortality was calculated overall and in 5-year intervals. In addition, trends in pregnancy-related mortality ratios, overall and by underlying cause of death, were assessed over time with Joinpoint regression. Joinpoint analysis identified statistically significant changes in trends (joinpoints) and in annual percent change (APC) across distinct time periods.During 2005-2024, 14,310 pregnancy-related deaths were identified in PMSS. There was a significant increase in the overall pregnancy-related mortality ratio from 2018 to 2021 (APC 20.11, P<.001) and a significant decrease from 2021 to 2024 (APC -17.91, P<.001). Throughout the study period, the most prevalent causes of death were infection or sepsis, cardiovascular conditions (including cardiomyopathy), other noncardiovascular medical conditions, and hemorrhage. Cardiovascular conditions were the leading cause of death for 17 of the 20 years. Trends in cause-specific pregnancy-related mortality ratios differed by cause of death. Deaths resulting from infection or sepsis had the largest increase in 2018-2021 (APC 86.17, P<.001) and the largest decrease in 2021-2024 (APC -49.67, P<.001), which coincided with the timing of the COVID-19 pandemic. Hemorrhage deaths showed an increasing pregnancy-related mortality ratio from 2017 to 2024 (APC 6.84, P=.02). The pregnancy-related mortality ratio for other cardiovascular conditions decreased from 2020 to 2024 (APC -9.49, P=.04).From 2005 to 2024, the most prevalent causes of pregnancy-related death were cardiovascular conditions, infection or sepsis, other noncardiovascular medical conditions, and hemorrhage. However, cause-specific trends in pregnancy-related mortality in the United States have changed over time. These differences underscore the importance of sustained surveillance to better inform clinical and public health efforts to address leading and emerging causes of pregnancy-related death.Copyright © 2026 Written work prepared by employees of the Federal Government as part of their official duties is, under the U.S. Copyright Act, a “work of the United States Government” for which copyright protection under Title 17 of the United States Code is not available. As such, copyright does not extend to the contributions of employees of the Federal Government.
Motivated by the rising incidence of cancers at younger ages, this study compares tumor genomic alterations between adolescents and young adults (AYAs; 18-39 years) and non-AYAs (40 years and older) and explores the relationship with continuous age in patients with relapsed/refractory ovarian, breast, and colorectal cancers accrued to the NCI-MATCH trial.Tumor genomic profiles generated by a next-generation sequencing 143-gene panel (NCI-MATCH assay, v2) were analyzed for association with age (AYA/total: 21/455 ovarian, 27/576 breast, 43/759 colorectal cancers). For each gene, AYA and non-AYA DNA alteration proportions were compared (Fisher exact test) and alteration association with continuous age (logistic regression) was evaluated (false discovery rate‑adjusted P value <.1 statistically significant). For colorectal cancer, sex-stratified analysis was also performed.No significant AYA versus non-AYA differences were observed in the prevalence of gene mutations (single nucleotide variant [SNV]/indel). A significant association of gene amplification with AYAs (odds ratio [OR], 95% CI) was CCND1 (0.2, 0.1-0.4), favoring AYAs in breast cancer. Examining age as a continuous variable, significant associations of gene mutations (SNV/indel) with older age, expressed as 5-year OR (OR [95% CI]), were observed: TP53 (1.3 [1.1 to 1.4]), ovarian cancer; CDH1 (1.4 [1.2 to 1.6]) and PIK3CA (1.1 [1.1 to 1.2]), breast cancer; and BRAF (1.4 [1.2 to 1.7]), female colorectal cancer. Associations with younger age included SMAD4 (0.8 [0.7 to 0.9]), male colorectal cancer. Significant associations of gene amplification with age (continuous) were as follows: CCNE1 (1.3 [1.1 to 1.6]), older ovarian cancer, and CCND1 (0.8 [0.8 to 0.9]), younger breast cancer.Comparing AYAs with non-AYAs among patients having relapsed/refractory disease, no significant differences in SNV/indel prevalence were observed, but CCND1 amplifications were more prevalent in AYA breast cancer. For several genes, DNA alterations were associated with continuous age and may depend on sex in colorectal cancer.
Liupao tea (LPT) undergoes significant bioactive changes during aging, while the link between these chemical shifts and the regulation of oxidative stress pathologies remains unclear. Therefore, this study integrated metabolomics, network pharmacology, and molecular docking to analyze Maosheng (MS) and Tianyu (TY) LPT samples aged 0-15 and 0-10 years, respectively, and elucidated the potential mechanisms of LPT in five oxidative stress - related diseases, including depression, obesity, Alzheimer's disease, diabetes, and hypertension. Metabolomics identified 42 and 13 core antioxidant metabolites in MS and TY samples, respectively. Among them, core metabolites in MS peaked at 5 years, while TY sustained high abundance levels from 3 to 8 years. Network pharmacology revealed synergistic regulation of all five pathologies by both LPTs, and eight key components were screened from MS, and nine from TY based on degree values. Interestingly, the highest node density was shown in depression, and Sankey connectivity confirmed its strongest modulatory effect. Besides, the core depression‑related components and targets were subjected to molecular docking simulations, and binding energies ranged from - 5.37 to -8.88 kcal/mol for MS components, as well as from - 4.11 to -8.39 kcal/mol for TY components. Importantly, oleaside A and CCRIS 7793 showed the strongest affinities for GAPDH and AKT1, respectively. In general, these results laid a practical foundation for developing an LPT product aimed at relieving oxidative stress-related health issues.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Considering the shared physiological mechanisms between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), it is plausible that certain compounds may exert therapeutic effects on both neurological disorders. This study aimed to employ in silico techniques to investigate the pharmacological mechanisms of huperzine A (HA) as an alternative treatment for PD and AD.Molecular targets of HA and genes associated with AD and PD were identified from public databases. Gene Ontology analysis, metabolic pathway analysis, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction were performed to identify shared molecular targets. Molecular docking was performed to assess HA affinity for hub proteins and to compare it with that of drugs used to treat AD and PD.The results suggested that HA interacts with 77 molecular targets common to both diseases. Enrichment analysis revealed that proteins from these targets were involved in biological functions, such as serotonin and amine binding. Hub proteins (SRC, TP53, AKT1, and CASP3) were identified from the PPI network. Furthermore, molecular docking simulations showed favorable binding of HA to the hub proteins and adequate binding to the targets of standard drugs (MAOB and ACHE). On the other hand, molecular dynamics analyses were performed to compare the binding characteristics of HA with those of the control targets.HA may modulate SRC, CASP3, and AKT1, suggesting a pleiotropic mechanism underlying the association between AD and PD. These computational findings provide a rational basis for experimental validation by modulating signaling pathways implicated in inflammatory processes and inhibiting enzymes involved in neurotransmitter degradation.This study contributes to the understanding of the neuroprotective activity of HA in AD and PD. However, further in vitro and in vivo investigations are required to confirm the dual therapeutic potential of HA in the treatment of AD and PD.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565132 is a review article
Cervical cancer remains a leading cause of cancer-related morbidity and mortality among women worldwide. Although genomic alterations in oncogenic signaling pathways have been implicated in cervical carcinogenesis, the functional impact of recurrent driver mutations remains incompletely understood. Whole-exome sequencing was performed on paired tumor and matched non-tumor tissues from 61 patients to identify recurrent somatic alterations. Functional significance was subsequently evaluated using cervical cancer cell models through proliferation, invasion, apoptosis, and signaling pathway analyses. Tumorigenic potential was further assessed using a xenograft mouse model. Genomic profiling identified PIK3CA as one of the most frequently mutated genes in cervical cancer. Functional analyses demonstrated that PIK3CA E545K mutation (PIK3CA-E545K-MUT) significantly enhanced tumor cell proliferation and invasive capacity while suppressing apoptosis. Mechanistically, these effects were associated with sustained activation of the AKT/mTOR signaling pathway, as evidenced by increased phosphorylation of key downstream effectors. Consistently, in vivo xenograft experiments confirmed that PIK3CA-E545K-MUT-driven signaling activation promoted tumor growth. Our findings establish a functional and mechanistic link between recurrent PIK3CA-E545K-MUT and aggressive tumor behavior in cervical cancer via AKT/mTOR pathway activation. These results provide experimental support for targeting the PI3K/AKT/mTOR axis as a potential therapeutic strategy in cervical cancer.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
The infrapatellar fat pad (IFP) is increasingly recognized as an active contributor to knee osteoarthritis (KOA) pathogenesis. However, age-related transcriptional changes in the IFP remain poorly understood, and whether observed differences are purely age-dependent or confounded by disease status is unclear. This study aimed to compare transcriptomic profiles of the IFP between young patients with traumatic knee injury and older patients with KOA.IFP samples were obtained from three young trauma patients (21-28 years, KL grade 0) and three older patients with KOA (64-72 years, KL grade III-IV). Bulk RNA sequencing was performed to compare transcriptomes between groups. Differential expression was analyzed with DESeq2 (|log2FC| ≥1, unadjusted p < 0.05), followed by GO and KEGG pathway enrichment. Real-time PCR confirmed key expression changes.Compared with the young trauma group, the old KOA group exhibited 247 upregulated (CSN1S1, SCN9A, P2RY14, EIF3C, etc) and 334 downregulated genes (PI15, WISP3, DMKN, NUTM2G, etc). The old KOA group exhibited significantly reduced expression of extracellular matrix (ECM) genes, including COL1A1, COL2A1, and FN1. Additionally, core genes of the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, such as AKT1, ITGA2B, and MYB, were also downregulated in the old KOA group.The IFP in old KOA exhibits a transcriptomic profile characterized by dampened ECM structural gene expression and suppressed PI3K-Akt signaling compared with young trauma patients. While confounded by injury status, these findings suggest that age-related loss of ECM integrity may contribute to IFP dysfunction in established KOA and warrant validation in healthy aging cohorts.
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2025.1728045.].Copyright © 2026 Yu and Liu.
Hyperuricemia (HUA) is a common metabolic disorder with limited safe and effective therapeutic options. This study integrated GEO dataset mining and network pharmacology to explore the anti-HUA efficacy and mechanism of pomegranate peel polyphenol extract (PPE). In a mouse model of HUA induced by potassium oxonate and 5% fructose water, PPE significantly reduced serum, urinary, and fecal uric acid levels, attenuated the increases in creatinine and blood urea nitrogen, improved estimated glomerular filtration rate, and ameliorated renal pathological damage, inflammation, and xanthine oxidase activity. Integration of GEO-derived HUA-related genes and computational target prediction for PPE identified 44 common targets, and protein-protein interaction network analysis revealed core targets including Akt1. KEGG enrichment highlighted the PI3K-AKT signaling pathway as a key mediator. Western blotting in vivo and in vitro confirmed that PPE suppressed PI3K-AKT phosphorylation and downregulated the urate reabsorption transporters URAT1 and GLUT9. Furthermore, experiments in UA-induced HK-2 cells demonstrated that ellagic acid, a major bioactive component of PPE, acted through the same pathway. These findings indicate that PPE reduces uric acid levels and protects the kidney via modulation of the PI3K-AKT pathway, providing an integrative data-driven rationale for its potential as a functional food or pharmaceutical agent against HUA.© 2026 The Author(s). Chemical Biology & Drug Design published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42557560
The immune checkpoint receptor T cell immunoreceptor with Ig and ITIM domains (TIGIT) can signal via cytoplasmic motifs to regulate T cell function. The signaling molecules that mediate inhibitory TIGIT signaling and its regulation in T cells remain poorly defined. Here, proximity proteomics is employed to define TIGIT-proximal proteins upon CD155 engagement, identifying several that are ligation-specific, including those involved in signaling (Grb2 and SOS1), cytoskeletal regulation (CD2AP and SdcBP), and endocytosis (IST1 and SNX3). Through crosslinking followed by immunoprecipitation, we show that TIGIT and CD2AP directly interact, representing a novel association. A TIGIT mutant (Y225A/Y231A) incapable of inhibitory signaling prevents recruitment of these proteins. Strikingly, T cell receptor (TCR) stimulation is essential for TIGIT to engage with these pathways. Mechanistically, phosphorylation of TIGIT requires both CD155 ligation and TCR activation, resulting in its signaling and internalization. TCR activation-dependent TIGIT signaling establishes a regulatory mechanism that limits checkpoint control to when functionally required.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Plastic additives are pervasive pollutants that readily leach into water, affecting human health; however, their toxicological risk assessment remains limited. This study used network toxicology to identify disease-associated common targets in plastic additives, including benzotriazole, bisphenol A, 2,4-Di-tert-butylphenol, mirex, diphenyl ether, bisphenol S, dibutyl phthalate, PFNA, and PFBS. The core targets identified using network toxicology for these plastic additives were AKT1, PTGS2, BCL2, ESR1, and GSK3B. In addition, an integrated in silico toxicity assessment of selected plastic additives using molecular docking, MM/GBSA analysis, and molecular dynamics simulation was performed to assess neurotoxicity, reproductive toxicity, and carcinogenic potential. Molecular docking revealed the high-scoring docked complexes as PTGS2-benzotriazole (-5.047 kcal/mol), PTGS2-bisphenol A (-5.264 kcal/mol), PTGS2-diphenyl ether (-5.078 kcal/mol), PTGS2-bisphenol S (-5.519 kcal/mol), PTGS2-2,4-di-tert-butylphenol (-5.565 kcal/mol), ESR1-benzotriazole (-5.339 kcal/mol), and ESR1-2,4-di-tert-butylphenol (-5.626 kcal/mol). The stability of highly interacting complexes was then assessed through MM/GBSA calculations and molecular dynamics simulations. A more negative ΔGBind score in MM/GBSA analysis indicated a stronger and more favourable interaction. In silico analysis of plastic additive-biological target interactions identified potential carcinogenic, reproductive, and neurological health hazards and revealed key molecular pathways underlying plastic additive-induced toxicity. Further in vitro/in vivo studies are required to validate these computational findings.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The biological function of intrinsically disordered proteins is frequently coupled to short linear motifs, which serve as protein binding sites. This goes often hand in hand with local transient structural element formation. The intrinsically disordered C-terminal region of the multi-site docking protein Grb2-associated binder 1 (Gab1) contains several well-characterized phosphotyrosine pairs, whereas the Tyr162 and Tyr183 epitopes have remained practically unstudied. Here, we combine computational prediction, circular dichroism and high-resolution NMR spectroscopy (chemical shift and relaxation analyses) to structurally characterize a Gab1 fragment containing residues 142-203. The here determined NMR structure shows an α-helix for residues Pro180 to Ile187, with Tyr183 positioned centrally, while all other parts of the fragment, including the region around Tyr162, are disordered. This helical conformation is maintained upon changes in pH, variation of peptide lengths and phosphorylation status. The inherent helix around Tyr183 distinguishes the local structural environment of Tyr162 and Tyr183 within the intrinsically disordered Gab1 tail and provides a structural framework for future studies on interaction partners and potential functional roles of this structural motif.© 2026 The Author(s). Biopolymers published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
The purpose of this study was to investigate cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD) and polypoidal choroidal vasculopathy (PCV) via single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), then focusing on caveolae-resident proteins based on identified negatively enriched caveolae via Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA).Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from patients with nAMD/PCV (n = 10) and healthy controls (n = 9) were collected. A total of 22,593 high-quality monocytes were analyzed for differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and GSEA. The key finding of negatively enriched caveola was recapitulated by in vitro mRNA transfections in THP-1 monocytes and human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs), followed by validation using qPCR. Functional assays and cytokine profiling were also performed.A total of 122 significant pathways was identified from WikiPathways, Reactome, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and Gene Ontology. GSEA revealed significant negative enrichment of caveola in classical monocytes of PCV (NES = -1.769, P = 0.001, q = 0.026). Cytokine/chemokine profiling revealed that Caveolin (CAV)1/2-overexpressing monocytes secreted markedly higher levels of several proinflammatory mediators, including IL-1β, IL-2, IL-8, IL-17, TNF-α, PDGF-BB, and MIP-1α/β. CAV1 or CAV2 overexpression in THP-1 cells increased monocyte adhesion but inhibited transendothelial migration. In HUVECs, their overexpression induced moderate cytokine profiles, including downregulation of RANTES (CCL5), IL-10, and VEGF, and upregulation of IL-6 and MIP-1α. CAV1/2 overexpression also significantly inhibited tube formation, whereas knockdown of CAV1 or CAV2 enhanced tube formation.Caveolins appear to contribute to the pathogenesis of nAMD and PCV as modulators of inflammation and vascular function. Enhanced CAV1/2 expression in endothelial cells attenuates angiogenic activity, indicating a potential therapeutic strategy.
Dapagliflozin shows variable renoprotective efficacy in patients with type 2 diabetic kidney disease (T2DKD). A retrospective clinical analysis confirmed marked interindividual variability in its urinary protein-lowering effects. To investigate the mechanism, drug affinity responsive target stability (DARTS) combined with quantitative proteomics was applied for target identification. Subsequent in vivo and in vitro validation suggested that GSK3β acts as a mediator of dapagliflozin-associated nephroprotection. Dapagliflozin directly bound and partially inhibited GSK3β, and GSK3β activity influenced podocyte protection. To translate findings into clinical relevance, a prospective trial was conducted. The GSK3B rs60393216 polymorphism was associated with urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio (UACR) reduction after dapagliflozin therapy. These findings suggest that GSK3β contributes to the renoprotective effects of dapagliflozin and that GSK3B polymorphisms may influence therapeutic responses in T2DKD.© 2026 Published by Elsevier Inc.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a prevalent respiratory disease characterized by airflow limitation, with genetic factors playing a crucial role in its pathogenesis. Effective-component compatibility of Bufei Yishen formula Ⅲ (ECC-BYF Ⅲ) has been shown to effectively ameliorate COPD symptoms; however, its underlying molecular mechanism remains elusive.To investigate the intervention mechanism of ECC-BYF Ⅲ on COPD and identify hub genes.Using the GSEA method, which retains all gene information, and exhibits robustness under small-sample conditions as well as high statistical power, COPD-related pathways were identified. Among the genes contained in those pathways, hub genes were identified by protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis, cytoHubba algorithm, etc. The reliability of the identified hub genes was validated by independent datasets, qRT-PCR in rats with COPD, HUVEC and MH-S cells, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations (MD), and surface plasmon resonance (SPR).Compared with COPD rats, ECC-BYF Ⅲ could ameliorate pathological changes and improve lung function. Then, utilizing the RNA-seq data from COPD rats, 106 disease related pathways were identified in the COPD group when contrasted with the control group (FDR < 0.05), of which 72 pathways were reversed after ECC-BYF Ⅲ intervention. Of the 3081 genes in those reversal pathways, 395 genes were differentially dysregulated in the COPD rat samples as opposed to the control samples (FDR < 0.05). Then, six genes (Gsk3b, Ctnnb1, Pten, Met, Pik3r3, and Erbb2) were identified by PPI network analysis, cytoHubba algorithm, and GeneCards database. Two hub genes (Ctnnb1 and Pik3r3) were well confirmed in independent datasets, the COPD rat model, HUVEC and MH-S cells, molecular docking, MD, and SPR.Two COPD hub genes were identified, and their regulation by ECC-BYF Ⅲ was demonstrated. Our results might provide a basis for the study of the mechanism of COPD, and its prevention and treatment guided by traditional Chinese medicine.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Cordycepin, a natural nucleoside analogue, exhibits anti-inflammatory and antitumor activity in multiple malignancies. However, the molecular basis of its action in pancreatic cancer and its potential role in chemosensitization remain incompletely defined. In this study, the effects of cordycepin on malignant phenotypes of pancreatic cancer cells were investigated in vitro. Network pharmacology was applied to identify candidate targets and construct a disease-drug-target-pathway network. Reverse virtual screening and molecular docking were used to predict key binding proteins, while RNA sequencing identified downstream pathways regulated by cordycepin. Target engagement was validated using cellular thermal shift assays, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulations. The underlying mechanistic pathways were further confirmed by functional experiments, and the therapeutic efficacy of cordycepin in combination with gemcitabine was evaluated. Our results demonstrated that cordycepin reduced the growth of pancreatic cancer cells and induced G2/M phase arrest and apoptosis. Network pharmacology identified 56 hub targets enriched in oncogenic pathways, including PI3K/AKT pathway. Reverse virtual screening revealed 111 candidate binding proteins, and intersection with hub targets highlighted five key effectors: CDK2, GSK3B, IL2, NOS3, and PARP1. Transcriptomic profiling showed marked disruption of cell cycle pathways, and CDK2 was validated as a direct molecular target of cordycepin. Cordycepin suppressed TNNI2 transcription by inhibiting the CDK2/E2F2 axis. Furthermore, cordycepin acted synergistically with gemcitabine to enhance antitumor responses and promote apoptosis in pancreatic cancer models. Collectively,cordycepin exerts antitumor activity in pancreatic cancer by targeting the CDK2/E2F2 axis to suppress malignant progression and by concurrently sensitizing cells to gemcitabine, thus holding promise as a therapeutic agent.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ulcerative colitis (UC), a common inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), is characterized by chronic mucosal inflammation. Our previous work established a link between cellular senescence and UC, suggesting that ameliorating cell senescence could be a therapeutic strategy for UC. In this study, we identified dehydrodiisoeugenol (DDIE) as an anti-senescence drug through screening in a DSS-induced colonic epithelial cell senescence model. In a DSS-induced acute mouse model of UC, DDIE effectively suppressed colonic senescence and significantly alleviated UC. Network pharmacology, colonic tissue transcriptomic analysis, and Western blot assays indicated that DDIE's therapeutic effects in UC are associated with the AKT and GSK3B pathways. Subsequent cellular blocking experiments utilizing the AKT activator insulin and the GSK3B inhibitor BIO confirmed that activating AKT or inhibiting GSK3B reversed the anti-senescence and anti-inflammatory effects of DDIE. Our findings demonstrate that DDIE treats UC by inhibiting AKT and activating GSK3B, thereby suppressing cellular senescence and restoring the intestinal barrier. This research offers a novel therapeutic strategy for UC from the perspective of anti-cellular senescence.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD) is a degenerative disease characterized by degradation of the extracellular matrix (ECM) in the nucleus pulposus, disruption of the fibrous ring structure, and imbalance of the inflammatory microenvironment. It is the main cause of chronic low back pain. Its pathogenesis is closely related to cellular aging and immune inflammation. Aging nucleus pulposus cells release pro-inflammatory factors such as IL-6 and TNF-α through the secretion of senescence associated secretory phenotype (SASP), recruiting M1 macrophages to infiltrate and forming a vicious cycle of "aging inflammation matrix destruction." This study systematically analyzed the molecular mechanism by which kaempferol improves IVDD through multi-target regulation by integrating bioinformatics analysis, animal experiments, and cell models. Bioinformatics screening revealed significant abnormal expression of genes such as AURKB, CCNB1, AXL, NEK6, and PTK2 in IVDD degenerated tissues. Downregulation of CCNB1 induced G2/M phase arrest by inhibiting CDK1 activity, while activation of GSK3B inhibited the Wnt signaling pathway by phosphorylating β-catenin, exacerbating ECM catabolism. Proteomics further confirms that the NOX4 mediated ROS-p38 MAPK pathway promotes cell apoptosis and SASP secretion. Immune infiltration analysis showed that M1 macrophages were significantly enriched in degenerated intervertebral discs, and their secreted IL-6 and TNF-α amplified the inflammatory cascade by activating the NF-κ B pathway. Animal experiments have shown that intervention with kaempferol can partially restore the intervertebral disc height index (DHI), downregulate the levels of IL‑1β and TNF‑α, upregulate the expression of CCNB1 and AURKB (which were downregulated in the IVDD model), thereby alleviating G2/M phase arrest and promoting cell cycle progression, inhibit AXL and PTK2, and reduce macrophage infiltration. Mechanistically, kaempferol inhibits NOX4 activity by clearing ROS, blocking the vicious cycle of oxidative stress‑inflammation; by regulating the NEK6/NF‑κB axis, the expression of MMP‑3 and ADAMTS‑4 is reduced, delaying ECM degradation; and improve the immune microenvironment by promoting macrophage polarization towards the M2 phenotype. In addition, kaempferol can reverse the metabolic imbalance mediated by GSK3B. This study reveals for the first time that kaempferol upregulates core gene networks such as AURKB and CCNB1 while suppressing AXL through the "anti‑inflammatory anti‑aging" dual pathway, thereby breaking the "aging‑immunity" crosstalk and restoring cell cycle homeostasis, providing a new strategy for natural compound intervention in IVDD treatment.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Background: Thoracic aortic aneurysm (TAA) is a potentially life-threatening degenerative disease whose principal danger arises from progressive aortic dilation with the attendant risk of rupture and dissection and which is characterized by extracellular matrix breakdown, smooth muscle loss, and endothelial dysfunction. Caveolae, plasma membrane microdomains built from caveolins (CAV1-3) and cavins (CAVIN1-4), govern nitric oxide (NO) signaling, endocytosis, and mechanotransduction. We hypothesized that downregulation of caveolae-associated genes, driven in part by microRNAs, contributes to endothelial failure and vascular remodeling in TAA. Methods: Normalized transcriptomic expression values for five caveolae-associated genes were retrieved from the GSE26155 dataset (43 TAA and 43 control aortas) using GEO2R. Differential expression was assessed for CAV1, CAV2, CAV3, CAVIN1, and CAVIN2, and Spearman correlation with Deming regression explored inter-gene relationships. Functional enrichment (Enrichr) and experimentally validated microRNA-target interactions (miRTarBase) were used to infer regulatory and mechanistic networks. CpG island mapping and gene-gene interactome construction (GeneMANIA) complemented the analyses. Results: CAV1 and CAV2 were downregulated in TAA at nominal significance (CAV1, p = 0.0225; CAV2, p = 0.0361); after Benjamini-Hochberg correction across the five candidate genes both differences attenuated to a consistent trend (q approximately 0.09), while the two caveolins were strongly co-expressed (Spearman r = 0.527, p < 0.001; Deming CAV2 = 1.881 × CAV1-0.892), indicating coordinated transcriptional regulation. Network analysis linked both genes to NOS3, NOSTRIN, EGFR, HRAS, and RAC1, consistent with impaired endothelial nitric oxide and GTPase signaling. Gene Ontology enrichment highlighted endothelial proliferation, nitric oxide metabolism, calcium homeostasis, vesicle organization, and MAPK regulation. Database-supported analysis (miRTarBase) identified miR-93-5p, miR-199a-3p, miR-203a-3p, and the miR-29 family as experimentally validated candidate repressors of CAV1/CAV2. Conclusions: This integrative transcriptomic and microRNA analysis identifies coordinated CAV1 and CAV2 downregulation as a candidate molecular event in thoracic aortic aneurysm, associated with caveolar loss, endothelial dysfunction, and disrupted nitric oxide homeostasis. The CAV1/CAV2-microRNA axis represents a candidate mechanistic signature warranting further investigation as a potential therapeutic target in aortic disease.
Adoptive T cell therapy requires T cells to infiltrate vascular tissues and preserve immune function. In solid tumor treatment, however, the surrounding microenvironment produces abnormal vasculature that impedes T cell infiltration. An approach that enables vascular normalization and enhances adoptive T cell function in parallel is essential for effective therapy but has not been reported. Here, we report the use of lenvatinib (LEN) to induce transient vascular normalization, thereby facilitating T cell infiltration. Moreover, LEN enhances T cell persistence by promoting the differentiation of T cells toward a memory phenotype. Our results indicate that the differentiation is by suppressing the PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathway, which drives effector differentiation, and by activating FOXO1, a transcription factor that promotes memory formation. To coordinate the transient vascular normalization and T cell enhancement, we link LEN-loaded, PD-L1-blocking micelles to T cells through acid-labile click chemistry, forming pH-responsive T cell-nanodrug conjugates. The conjugates synchronize the intratumoral release of LEN and the PD-L1 antagonist peptide OPBP-1, thereby coordinating vascular normalization, T cell differentiation, and checkpoint blockade. In vivo, the conjugates increased intratumoral CD8+ T cells and splenic memory T cells by over sixfold in B16-OVA tumors and achieved complete regression in a subset of MC38-OVA tumors without systemic toxicity, providing a promising strategy for solid tumor immunotherapy.
Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a chronic inflammatory bowel disorder with limited therapeutic options, particularly those capable of selectively reinforcing intestinal epithelial barrier integrity while preserving immune homeostasis. Here, Rhoifolin (3, 10 mg/kg) dose-dependently alleviates DSS and TNBS-induced colitis in mice. Mechanistically, Rhoifolin selectively potentiates ILC3s effector function without affecting their proliferation, apoptosis, intestinal homing, developmental differentiation, or the distribution of CCR6+, NKp46+, and double-negative ILC3s subsets. This functional enhancement promotes IL-22 production, thereby reinforcing epithelial barrier integrity in colonic epithelial cells and organoids. Integrated transcriptomics and untargeted metabolomics identified nicotinamide salvage as a central metabolic program driving ILC3s functional enhancement. NMNAT1 was identified as a direct molecular target of Rhoifolin. Molecular docking and dynamic simulations pinpointed Leu155 as a critical residue mediating Rhoifolin-NMNAT1 interaction, and mutation of Leu155 antagonized metabolic activation and IL-22 induction. Consistently, Rhoifolin-induced NAD+ elevation enhanced SIRT1 activity, leading to FOXO1 deacetylation and nuclear translocation. Further CUT&Tag-qPCR demonstrated FOXO1 enrichment at Il22 promoter, driving IL-22 transcription in ILC3s. Collectively, our findings identify Rhoifolin as a potent ILC3s effector function enhancer and uncover a previously unrecognized NMNAT1-NAD+-SIRT1-FOXO1 axis linking immunometabolic and epigenetic regulation to intestinal barrier protection, highlighting ILC3s empowerment as a promising therapeutic strategy for UC.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Acute hypoxic exposure combined with exhaustive exercise can impair exercise performance and induce metabolic, inflammatory, oxidative, and tissue stress. Cycloastragenol, a bioactive constituent of Astragalus membranaceus, has shown antioxidant and tissue-protective potential, but its role in acute hypoxic exercise stress remains unclear. This study investigated whether cycloastragenol pretreatment attenuates fatigue- and injury-related responses in mice.A combined exploratory network pharmacology and animal experimental approach was used. Eighty-four male C57BL/6 J mice were randomly assigned to seven groups: blank control, model control (MC), normoxic exercise, Rhodiola rosea positive control (300 mg/kg/day), and low-, medium-, and high-dose cycloastragenol groups (25, 50, and 100 mg/kg/day). Pretreatments were administered by oral gavage once daily for 40 days. The MC, positive-control, and cycloastragenol groups then underwent continuous 24-h simulated hypobaric hypoxia equivalent to 5,000 m, followed by treadmill running to exhaustion. Outcomes included exhaustion time, serum biochemical and inflammatory markers, gastrocnemius ATPase activities, representative histopathology, and selected protein-expression endpoints. Data were analyzed using one-way ANOVA with Dunnett's test, eta squared, and Cohen's d.Network pharmacology identified 116 overlapping targets and suggested HIF-1, PI3K-Akt, FoxO, and IL-17 signaling as hypothesis-generating pathways. Compared with MC, high-dose cycloastragenol prolonged exhaustion time (133.67 ± 7.45 vs. 96.92 ± 9.42 min; d = +4.33; p < 0.001), reduced BUN (16.14 ± 1.21 vs. 23.38 ± 1.61 mmol/L; d = -5.09; p < 0.001), lactate (7.72 ± 1.77 vs. 16.27 ± 2.62 mmol/L; d = -3.82; p < 0.001), MDA (1.08 ± 0.07 vs. 1.20 ± 0.10 nmol/mg; d = -1.41; p < 0.01), IL-6 (14.92 ± 1.00 vs. 28.69 ± 1.41 pg./mL; p < 0.001), and TNF-α (51.31 ± 2.18 vs. 114.93 ± 1.84 ng/mL; p < 0.001), while increasing T-SOD activity and Na + -K + -ATPase activity. Representative HE images and Western blot results suggested qualitative tissue protection and modulation of HIF-1alpha, FoxO1, Nrf2, and HO-1 expression.Cycloastragenol pretreatment was associated with improved tolerance to acute hypoxic exhaustive exercise and attenuation of metabolic, inflammatory, oxidative, and tissue-related responses in mice. Direct hepatic glycogen, muscle glycogen, and blood glucose endpoints were not measured; further mechanistic and translational studies are needed.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Zhang, Jia, Gu, Xi and Zhang.
The immunomodulatory effects of platelet-derived microparticles (PMPs) on host innate immunity remain incompletely understood. In this study, we established a clinically relevant in vitro model using PMPs from stored platelets to investigate their effects on NK cell function. PMPs were isolated from platelets of 3 healthy donors, and co-cultured with PBMCs or primary NK cells from 18 healthy donors. Their effects on NK cell activation, cytotoxic function, and IFN-γ secretion were assessed by flow cytometry. qRT-PCR was performed to detect the mRNA expression of four key NK functional genes (IFNG, GZMB, PRF1 and FOXO1). High-throughput small RNA sequencing coupled with bioinformatic analysis was applied to screen PMP-derived miRNAs, and miR-223-3p was identified as a candidate functional mediator. We further conducted ex vivo validation of this effect using PBMCs from 12 sepsis patients. PMPs accumulating to estimated transfusion-relevant concentrations in stored platelets modulate NK cell activation, IFN-γ production, cytotoxic molecule expression and K562 cell killing in a concentration-dependent manner. Transcriptional detection results suggest that the downregulation of cytotoxic effector proteins induced by PMPs may be predominantly regulated by post-transcriptional pathways, which are possibly mediated by miR-223-3p. Our findings identify a potential pathway by which PMPs accumulating during platelet storage may contribute to transfusion-related immunomodulation, offering a preliminary mechanistic framework. Notably, the results of our ex vivo validation using samples from sepsis patients provide a foundation for the hypothesis that PMP-mediated NK cell modulation may contribute to immune dysregulation in clinical scenarios, such as sepsis, where platelet transfusions are common.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559717 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42553762 is a review article
Stem cell aging critically limits the efficacy of regenerative biomaterials, yet how mechanical cues within the microenvironment modulate this process remains insufficiently understood. Here, we reveal that the nanoscale spacing of adhesive ligands imposes stiffness-dependent effects on mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) senescence. Wider spacing (distance 150 nm) accelerates aging on stiff hydrogels (50 kPa) but mitigates it on soft hydrogels (5 kPa), relative to dense spacing (distance 30 nm). Using a molecular clutch-based theoretical model, we demonstrate that ligand spacing and matrix stiffness cooperatively regulate cell behaviors through focal adhesion assembly. Enhanced focal adhesion formation amplifies stress fiber-generated traction forces and nuclear envelope tension, leading to increased chromatin accessibility and transcriptional activation of FOXO1, a central regulator of cellular senescence. These mechanistic insights are further validated in vivo. Collectively, these findings delineate a mechanotransduction mechanism through which nanoscale adhesive architecture and matrix stiffness cooperatively govern stem cell aging.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42551924 is a review article
Neuraminidase 1 (Neu1) plays a crucial role in the removal of sialic acid from glycoproteins and glycolipids, significantly influencing hepatic glycolipid metabolism. However, its precise contributions to liver gluconeogenesis and bile acid metabolism are not well defined. Although the sialylation of the hepatic glucagon receptor (GCGR) has been linked to the regulation of hepatic glucose homeostasis, the impact of Neu1 on hepatic gluconeogenesis through the desialylation of GCGR remains to be elucidated.To explore the physiological function of Neu1 in liver glycolipid metabolism, we constructed liver-specific Neu1 knockout mice. Glucagon induced HepG2 cells were used to assess the role of Neu1 in gluconeogenesis.Phenotypic analysis indicated that these knockout mice exhibited a late-onset glycolipid metabolism disorder. Mechanistically, Neu1 deficiency caused the upregulation of key gluconeogenic genes, with cAMP-PKA signaling and the sialylation mediated activation of GCGR influencing the Akt-FoxO1 pathway, contributing to the disruption of hepatic glucose metabolism in 21-month-old Neu1 deficient mice. Transcriptomic analysis revealed an increase in lipogenesis and bile acid synthesis pathways in the livers of aged Neu1 knockout mice. Notably, there were significant alterations in steroid hormone biosynthesis, with elevated levels of lithocholic acid and allolithocholic acid detected in the Neu1 deficient mice. Additionally, the activation of inflammatory responses and reduced lipolysis seemed to correlate with the observed abnormalities in glycolipid metabolism.These results indicate that Neu1 is essential for GCGR-dependent gluconeogenesis, suggesting that Neu1 could be a potential therapeutic target for addressing hepatic glycolipid metabolism disorders associated with aging.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Chondrosarcoma is a common bone sarcoma in adults with limited therapeutic options due to frequent chemoresistance. Cisplatin (CDDP) is a key chemotherapeutic agent, but resistance often develops. This study investigated the role and mechanism of circular RNA HMGB2 (circHMGB2) in cisplatin resistance of chondrosarcoma. Clinically, circHMGB2 was upregulated in chondrosarcoma tumors and associated with cisplatin resistance and poor patient survival. Functionally, exogenous overexpression of circHMGB2 elevated cisplatin resistance in chondrosarcoma cells (SW1353, OUMS-27) in vitro, while its silencing re-sensitized resistant cells. Mechanistically, circHMGB2 did not function as a miRNA sponge but acted as a competitive molecular decoy for the RNA-binding protein IGF2BP1. We demonstrated that circHMGB2 directly binds IGF2BP1, competitively impairing IGF2BP1's binding to and stabilization of Grb10 mRNA, leading to its destabilization and subsequent downregulation of Grb10 protein. This suppression of Grb10, a known negative regulator of the PI3K/Akt pathway, resulted in constitutive Akt phosphorylation, driving resistance. Crucially, co-overexpression of IGF2BP1 rescued circHMGB2-induced Grb10 downregulation, Akt activation, and cisplatin resistance, validating the decoy mechanism. Furthermore, in a cisplatin-resistant xenograft model, silencing circHMGB2 synergized with cisplatin to significantly inhibit tumor growth, improve host survival, and upregulate intratumoral Grb10 while suppressing Akt phosphorylation. Our results delineate a novel circHMGB2/IGF2BP1/Grb10/Akt axis that drives cisplatin resistance in chondrosarcoma. Targeting circHMGB2 could therefore serve as a promising therapeutic strategy to overcome chemoresistance and enhance treatment efficacy.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a highly effective anthracycline chemotherapeutic agent whose clinical utility is limited by dose-dependent cardiotoxicity. Although oxidative stress and mitochondrial injury are established mechanisms, the contribution of regulated metal-dependent cell death (MCD) pathways remains incompletely defined. This study investigated the ferroptosis and cuproptosis role in doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity (DIC) and evaluated the protective effects of luteolin (LUT) and nanoliposomal LUT using an integrated network pharmacology and experimental validation approach in rats. Network pharmacology identified multitarget interactions linking LUT with oxidative stress, metal homeostasis, and cell death signaling pathways. In vivo, DOX administration induced marked cardiac dysfunction, elevated serum cardiac injury biomarkers, myocardial histopathological damage, and ultrastructural abnormalities. These changes were accompanied by significant cardiac iron and copper accumulation, increased malondialdehyde (MDA), depleted superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione (GSH), reduced glutathione peroxidase-4 (GPX4) activity, and increased tumor protein p53 (TP53) expression. At the molecular level, DOX downregulated the ferroptosis-protective genes, SLC7A11 and SLC3A2, while upregulating the iron transport genes, transferrin receptor 1 (TFR1) and SLC39A14, together with the cuproptosis-related genes ferredoxin-1 (FDX1) and SLC31A1, while suppressing ATP7A. These changes were further supported by altered protein expression of SLC7A11, ATP7A, and TP53. LUT significantly ameliorated these functional, biochemical, molecular, and structural alterations, indicating suppression of both ferroptotic and cuproptotic signaling. Nanoliposomal LUT showed superior efficacy to free LUT across most assessed parameters. Collectively, these findings support the involvement of ferroptosis and cuproptosis related signaling in DIC and highlight LUT, particularly in nanoliposomal form, as a promising cardioprotective strategy against anthracycline toxicity.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
In non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) rearrangement, bypass signaling activation commonly leads to resistance against alectinib. Identifying key molecular targets that integrate signals from resistance-driving kinases is crucial for overcoming this resistance. However, these targets have not yet been identified.We generated alectinib-resistant (AR) subclones from H3122 and H2228 cells. Subsequently, we analyzed bypass signaling pathways using western blotting, evaluated drug sensitivity with Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assays. To assess the function of Grb2-associated binder 1 (Gab1), we employed siRNA-mediated knockdown and lentiviral shRNA both in vitro and in xenograft models. Additionally, we determined the stability of Gab1 through cycloheximide chase assays.AR cells demonstrated concurrent activation of the mesenchymal epithelial transition receptor tyrosine kinase (MET) and Rous sarcoma oncogene cellular homolog non-receptor tyrosine kinase (Src), accompanied by upregulation of Gab1. The combined inhibition of MET and Src, as opposed to single-agent blockade, effectively suppressed Gab1/protein kinase B (AKT) signaling and restored sensitivity to alectinib. Gab1 knockdown mirrored the effects of dual kinase inhibition, by disrupting MET/Src/AKT signaling and resensitizing cells to alectinib. Mechanistically, the elevation of Gab1 resulted from post - translational stabilization, with a significantly extended half - life in resistant cells. In vivo, silencing Gab1 inhibited the growth of H3122-AR2 xenografts without causing systemic toxicity, which correlated with decreased phosphorylation of MET, Src and AKT in tumor tissues.In ALK-positive NSCLC with acquired resistance to alectinib, Gab1 emerged as a crucial downstream signaling convergence target of MET and Src co-activation. Targeting this adaptor protein presented a promising therapeutic strategy to overcome bypass-mediated resistance.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is a cluster of interconnected cardiometabolic risk factors with a substantial but incompletely characterized genetic basis. To identify novel genetic determinants, particularly rare variants, we here conducted a large-scale exome-wide association study in 367,188 individuals from the UK Biobank (78,300 cases and 288,888 controls). Single-variant analysis identified 74 independent loci, three of which correspond to rare variants in CARMIL2, ACTR6, and PLA2G12A without prior documented MetS association. Furthermore, gene-based burden testing pinpointed three key genes: ABCA1, APOC3, and PDE3B. Integrative follow-up analyses - including colocalization across molecular traits (mRNA, protein, microbiota) and association testing with proteomic/metabolic biomarkers - collectively suggest that these rare variants influence MetS susceptibility through coordinated effects on protein expression, metabolite concentrations, and microbial abundance. Importantly, ABCA1, APOC3, and PDE3B are established or promising drug targets for related metabolic disorders. In summary, our study not only elucidates the significant contribution of rare variants to MetS susceptibility, distinct from common variant signals, but also highlights the central role of lipid metabolism pathways, thereby nominating plausible targets for therapeutic intervention. Clinical trial number:Not applicable.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Medulloblastoma is a heterogeneous solid tumor, and its molecular characteristics are the most important prognostic factors for this neoplasm. Unfortunately, the molecular classification of MB-G3 and MB-G-4 medulloblastoma is very complex because of molecular similarity. Therefore, in this work, through unsupervised machine learning-based gene expression profiling, we identified a low molecular profile associated with four molecular groups of medulloblastoma. We performed medulloblastoma expression microarray data mining via the Partek Genomics Suite and Transcriptome Analysis Console (TAC), and we included a total of 25 fresh medulloblastoma tumors that were obtained and hybridized into HG U133 Plus 2.0 Array microarrays. To identify the molecular groups of the 25 patients, we compared them against classified patients, which were obtained from free repositories, and through data mining based on gene expression, compared the expression profiles of our patients. To do so, we performed an analysis via the least squares method via PCA. The molecular groups MB-WNT and MB-SHH were confirmed via immunohistochemistry via β-catenin, YAP1 and GAB1 antibodies in tissue fixed in formalin and embedded in paraffin, and another tissue section was placed on a Visium Spatial slide to perform spatial RNA-seq via Illumina NextSeq 2000 platform sequencers. The data obtained were analyzed with R. We identified the expression profiles associated with the four molecular groups and formed a reference set. Through unsupervised analysis via the least squares method, we assigned the molecular profiles of 25 patients with medulloblastoma, via the integration of bulk and spatial tumor molecular gene expression profiling analysis and with immunohistochemical findings, this strategy was fast and accurate. We observed correlations in three of the trials carried out and, in part, in one study, a patient who presented two tumor strains and two molecular signatures (SHH and G4), which led us to believe that this patient presented mixed phenotypic characteristics. Multigene expression profile analysis of medulloblastoma represents a significant advance in precision medicine; integrating different layers of transcriptomic information allows us to demonstrate underlying molecular changes in the four molecular groups that are essential for personalized therapy.
The identification of cuproptosis offers novel insights into therapeutic strategies for neoplastic diseases. We explore whether cuproptosis and cuproptosis-related genes (CRGs) could provide novel perspectives for the prognosis and treatment of gastric cancer patients.RNA sequencing data of gastric cancer patients were retrieved from The Cancer Genome Atlas Program (TCGA), CRGs in gastric cancer were analyzed through bioinformatics methods. Subsequent experiments, including Western blotting (WB), quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), immunofluorescence, 5-Ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine assay, Cell Counting Kit-8 assay, Transwell assay, transmission electron microscopy, and xenograft tumor formation in nude mice, were conducted to further validate the biological role of the key CRG PDE3B in gastric cancer.We confirmed CP, MAP2K2, and PDE3B as key genes for the prognostic classifier. Knockdown of PDE3B effectively suppressed the pro-tumorigenic functions in gastric cancer cell malignant proliferation and progression. Elesclomol-CuCl2 (ES-Cu) triggered canonical cuproptosis features in gastric cancer cells, and PDE3B expression was downregulated during this process. Notably, the inhibition of PDE3B significantly potentiated ES-Cu induced cuproptosis.We characterized the landscape of CRG dysregulation in gastric cancer, verified that ES-Cu exhibited a significant cytotoxic effect on gastric cancer, and elucidated the pivotal role of PDE3B in gastric cancer.© AME Publishing Company.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42411627 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42400642 is a review article
Retinal neovascularization (RNV) is a potential vision-threatening process characterized by the abnormal growth of retinal vessels. Despite its clinical prevalence, the precise mechanisms governing RNV initiation and progression remain incompletely defined. Here we identify myeloid-derived growth factor (MYDGF) as a critical regulator of retinal vascular dynamics. Using single-cell RNA sequencing and human patient validation, we show that MYDGF is upregulated in retinal endothelial cells during proliferative diabetic retinopathy and mouse models of pathological neovascularization. In vitro, MYDGF promotes retinal endothelial cell proliferation, migration, and sprouting. In vivo, endothelial-specific MYDGF depletion inhibits both normal vascular development and pathological neovascularization in neonatal mice, and disrupting adult vascular homeostasis in male mice. MYDGF drives angiogenesis by activating the Akt-mTOR cascade through the Gαi1/3-Gab1 signaling complex; genetic depleting or mutation these components suppress MYDGF-induced Akt-mTOR activation and angiogenic responses. Together, MYDGF promotes retinal angiogenesis and maintains vascular homeostasis via the Gαi1/3-Gab1-Akt-mTOR signaling axis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Musculoskeletal complications in type 2 diabetes (T2DM) are inadequately captured by body mass index (BMI). Waist-to-BMI ratio (WBR) may better reflect adverse body composition. We examined cross-sectional and longitudinal associations between WBR and musculoskeletal disorders in T2DM.This two-phase study was conducted within an ongoing hospital-based cohort at the First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical University (Fuzhou, China). The cross-sectional analysis included 4157 adults with T2DM recruited between March 2012 and August 2023 (54.3% men; mean age 59.4 ± 10.3 years), using data from their first assessment. Associations of waist circumference (WC), waist-to-height ratio (WHtR), waist-to-hip ratio (WHR), BMI and WBR with osteopenia, sarcopenia, sarcopenic osteopenia (SOs), sarcopenic obesity (SOb) and fractures were evaluated. The prospective cohort comprised a longitudinal subset enrolled between March 2012 and June 2022, ensuring at least 1 year of follow-up prior to administrative censoring in August 2023. A total of 440 individuals (57.0% men; mean age 59.7 ± 9.7 years) were followed for a median of 34.0 months (20.0-57.0). Associations between time-dependent WBR and incident outcomes were assessed using Cox models. A nested exploratory analysis was conducted within the cohort. Thirty participants with extreme annualised WBR change (ΔWBR/yr) were selected. Baseline serum samples collected at enrolment, prior to outcome occurrence, were analysed using phage immunoprecipitation sequencing (PhIP-Seq).Cross-sectionally, WBR was negatively correlated with bone mineral density and appendicular skeletal muscle mass index and positively correlated with osteopenia, sarcopenia, SOs, SOb and fractures (all p < 0.01), whereas BMI, WC, WHtR and WHR showed weaker associations. After adjustment, higher WBR was independently associated with osteopenia (men: OR 1.723, 95% CI 1.614-1.840; women: OR 1.420, 1.348-1.495), sarcopenia (men: OR 4.779, 4.165-5.484; women: OR 2.991, 2.683-3.334), SOs (men: OR 6.261, 5.314-7.377; women: OR 4.336, 3.753-5.010), SOb (men: OR 4.737, 3.975-5.646; women: OR 4.652, 3.715-5.825) and fractures (men: OR 1.236, 1.093-1.397; women: OR 1.103, 1.003-1.213; all p < 0.05). Prospectively, higher time-dependent WBR predicted incident osteopenia (HR 1.365, 95% CI 1.024-1.820), sarcopenia (HR 1.282, 1.086-1.512), SOs (HR 1.408, 1.176-1.686), SOb (HR 1.634, 1.262-2.116) and fractures (HR 1.369, 1.029-1.821). PhIP-Seq analysis identified differential autoantibody reactivity related to muscle structural organisation and cytoskeletal regulation, while bone-related differences were enriched in Wnt signalling and hormone-related pathways.Higher WBR and longitudinal increases were independently associated with osteopenia, sarcopenia, sarcopenic phenotypes and fractures in individuals with T2DM.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cachexia, Sarcopenia and Muscle published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Obesity raises metabolic and cardiovascular risk and represents a major public health challenge. The sodium-glucose cotransport-2 inhibitor empagliflozin (EMPA) may improve metabolic parameters beyond glycemic control. This systematic review critically evaluated the effects of EMPA on anthropometric and metabolic outcomes in overweight or obese subjects without diabetes and identified key areas for future research.This systematic review included studies identified through searches of five databases (Scopus, Web of Science, PubMed, Google Scholar, and the Cochrane Library) from January 2023 to May 2026. Following duplicate removal and PRISMA-guided screening, 27 studies were included (7 randomized controlled trials and 20 animal studies). Studies were excluded if they involved diabetic populations, lacked appropriate comparator groups, or did not meet predefined eligibility criteria. The Cochrane and SYRCLE tools were used to assess the quality of human and animal evidence, respectively.Animal studies primarily used EMPA doses of 8-30 mg/kg/day, whereas human trials employed fixed clinical doses of 10-12.5 mg daily. In human investigations, EMPA significantly lowered body weight with notable improvements in fasting glucose. Preclinical studies largely supported these findings and additionally demonstrated improvements in hepatic steatosis, lipid metabolism, and inflammatory markers. Proposed mechanisms included modulation of FGF21 signaling, hepatic PDK4 expression, hypothalamic neuropeptides, NF-κB activity, mitochondrial function, and gut microbiome composition.Even in the absence of diabetes, EMPA shows potential for improving anthropometric and metabolic indices. However, clinical evidence remains limited and further human trials are needed to confirm its long-term safety, efficacy, and underlying molecular mechanisms.Copyright © 2026 Farima Farsi et al. International Journal of Endocrinology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Rabbit meat is widely recognized for its favorable nutritional properties, while the molecular mechanisms underlying differences in meat quality between New Zealand White rabbits and Rex rabbits are essential for rabbit production. In this study, a total of 120 healthy 13-week-old rabbits (60 per group) were used to evaluate meat quality traits. The longissimus dorsi muscle (LDM) was then collected for transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses. The results showed that New Zealand White rabbits exhibited significantly higher live weight before slaughter, eviscerated weight, semi-eviscerated weight, and pH24 (p < 0.01), whereas Rex rabbits displayed higher cooking loss (p < 0.01) and intramuscular fat content (p < 0.05). Metabolomic profiling identified 218 differential metabolites (DMs), which were mainly enriched in amino acid biosynthesis and the pentose phosphate pathway, including key metabolites such as DL-arginine, gallic acid, and lipid-related compounds. Transcriptomic analysis identified 227 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) enriched in pathways associated with muscle development and meat quality, including oxidative phosphorylation, FoxO, and MAPK signaling pathways. Key DEGs, such as MYH13, HOXA13, and PDK4, were associated with muscle fiber formation and fat deposition. Integrated analysis revealed that 34 DEGs and 24 DMs were co-enriched in 26 pathways, with strong correlations observed between oxidative phosphorylation-related genes and energy metabolites, as well as between collagen-associated genes and amino acids. These findings establish a gene-metabolite regulatory network underlying breed-specific differences in meat quality and identify potential molecular markers to improve rabbit meat quality and to better understand muscle metabolism across different rabbit breeds.© 2026 Stichting International Foundation for Animal Genetics.
Diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a critical pathological driver of heart failure in diabetic patients, primarily characterized by progressive myocardial fibrosis. Nevertheless, the core molecular network linking upstream metabolic dysregulation to the aberrant activation of downstream cardiac fibroblasts remains largely elusive. In this study, we combined in vivo and in vitro approaches with bioinformatics analysis. A high-fat diet-induced mouse model of diabetic myocardial fibrosis was established, and transcriptome sequencing was performed to screen for hub genes, which were subsequently validated in two independent DCM datasets. Single-cell RNA sequencing revealed that PDK4 and ACOT1 were upregulated in cardiac fibroblasts under pathological conditions. In vitro experiments confirmed that high glucose induced the expression of PDK4, ACOT1, and fibrotic markers in human primary cardiac fibroblasts. Molecular docking predicted a potential interaction between PDK4 and ACOT1. Collectively, our findings identify PDK4 and ACOT1 as evolutionarily conserved metabolic hub genes associated with myocardial fibrosis in DCM, suggesting a putative "metabolism-fibrosis axis" and providing potential therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2026 Huan Liu et al. Journal of Diabetes Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Accurate diagnosis of periprosthetic joint infection (PJI) is critical yet challenging. The role of autoantibodies in PJI remains largely unexplored. In this study, we employed phage display immunoprecipitation sequencing (PhIP-Seq) to profile PJI-associated autoantibodies and assess their diagnostic utility in PJI.We collected plasma samples from a cohort of 45 patients, including 25 with PJI, 9 with aseptic loosening, and 11 post-primary arthroplasty without complications. Initially, PhIP-Seq screening was performed on 10 samples (five PJI and five post-primary arthroplasty) to identify significantly differentially expressed autoantibodies. Subsequently, the immunoglobulin G (IgG) levels of these specific autoantibodies were quantified in the plasma of all participants via ELISA, and statistical analysis was performed to evaluate their diagnostic performance in PJI.PhIP-Seq identified IFT80 and VPS54 as PJI-associated autoantigens. ELISA confirmed significantly elevated levels of corresponding IgG antibodies in PJI patients compared to those with aseptic loosening or post-primary arthroplasty (p < 0.01). Both autoantibodies demonstrated preliminary diagnostic performance: IFT80 achieved an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.797 (sensitivity = 56.0%, specificity = 95.0%), while VPS54 yielded an AUC of 0.776 (sensitivity = 72.0%, specificity = 75.0%). A combined diagnostic model integrating both biomarkers further enhanced the diagnostic performance (AUC = 0.810, sensitivity = 68.0%, specificity = 80.0%).This study establishes IFT80 and VPS54 as novel autoantibodies in PJI. Their corresponding autoantibodies exhibit robust diagnostic potential, offering support for the development of serological assays to improve PJI diagnosis.Copyright © 2026 Chang, Ma and Xu.
N-(1,3-Dimethylbutyl)-N'-phenyl-p-phenylenediamine quinone (6PPD-Q), a tire rubber antioxidant derivative, accumulates in air, soil, and water and has been found in urine, blood, and cerebrospinal fluid, posing significant health risks. Although 6PPD-Q exhibits intestinal toxicity, its role in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) remains unclear. The objective of this study was to identify key molecular targets of 6PPD-Q in IBD and to validate their involvement in 6PPD-Q-induced intestinal epithelial cell injury. Using network toxicology, machine learning, molecular docking, and in vitro experiments in human intestinal epithelial cells, we identified 60 overlapping 6PPD-Q-IBD targets, enriched in lipid metabolism, oxidative stress, and inflammation. Multi-model machine learning screened six core genes (NR1H4, ANXA5, SPARC, PCK1, PDK2, and CFB), with NR1H4 as a key mediator. Molecular docking showed strong binding of 6PPD-Q to NR1H4, exceeding that of its parent compound. In vitro experiments confirmed that 6PPD-Q caused lipid droplet and cholesterol accumulation, mitochondrial dysfunction (manifested as ATP synthesis inhibition, mitochondrial ROS burst, decreased membrane potential, and mitochondrial fragmentation), and significantly upregulated the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6, TNF-α, and IL-8, thereby triggering inflammatory responses. Moreover, 6PPD-Q exposure significantly downregulated NR1H4 expression. These findings reveal that 6PPD-Q increases IBD risk by interfering with lipid metabolism, disrupting mitochondrial function, upregulating inflammatory cytokines, and downregulating NR1H4, providing important evidence for understanding the risk posed by this emerging environmental pollutant to IBD and for developing preventive strategies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection reprograms host metabolism to favor viral replication and immune evasion, yet the contribution of accessory proteins remains poorly defined. Here, we characterize the metabolic effects of the SARS-CoV-2 accessory protein ORF7a. Lentiviral expression of ORF7a in human lung epithelial (A549) and monocytic (THP1) cells, combined with integrated transcriptomic, proteomic, and metabolomic analyses, revealed marked dysregulation of glucose and lipid metabolism. ORF7a impaired mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, reducing basal and maximal respiration, inducing mitochondrial depolarization, and increasing reactive oxygen species. Mechanistically, ORF7a upregulated pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 4 (PDK4), enhancing phosphorylation of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex and suppressing pyruvate oxidation. However, pharmacological PDK4 inhibition failed to restore respiratory function. High-resolution respirometry identified complex I dysfunction, while Blue Native-PAGE revealed defective assembly of respiratory supercomplexes. Together, these findings demonstrate that ORF7a disrupts mitochondrial metabolism through enzymatic regulation and destabilization of the respiratory chain, highlighting mitochondria as a target of SARS-CoV-2-induced metabolic reprogramming.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification is a crucial post-transcriptional regulatory mechanism for gene expression. In our previous bioinformatic analysis, we found that many m6A genes are involved in asthma pathogenesis; however, the precise regulatory mechanism has not been experimentally validated. Using an in-vitro asthma model (platelet-derived growth factor [PDGF]-BB-stimulated rat airway smooth muscle cells [AMSCs]), we validated dysregulated m6A-related genes using qRT-PCR. Functional assays (CCK-8 and wound healing assays) revealed that Igf2bp2 knockdown suppressed AMSC proliferation and migration. Integrated analysis of mRNA-sequencing (Igf2bp2-silenced AMSCs) and RIP-seq identified three asthma-associated targets: Dact1, Dixdc1, and Pdk4. Intriguingly, Dixdc1 transcripts harbored multiple m6A motifs, consistent with the RIP-seq data. Actinomycin D assays demonstrated the IGF2BP2-mediated post-transcriptional stabilization of Dixdc1 mRNA, a mechanism corroborated by both PDGF-BB-treated AMSCs and ovalbumin-induced asthmatic rats. Clinically, IGF2BP2-DIXDC1 co-expression was evident in the GEO human airway datasets and asthmatic rat tissues. Pharmacologically, resveratrol attenuated asthmatic phenotypes by suppressing this axis. Our findings delineate an m6A-dependent pathway, wherein IGF2BP2 stabilized Dixdc1 to drive airway remodeling, positioning resveratrol as a potential therapeutic agent targeting epitranscriptomic dysregulation in asthma.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Fatigue is common and debilitating in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), but its etiology remains unclear. Phage-display immunoprecipitation sequencing (PhIP-Seq) was used to profile systemic antibodies against 344,000 rationally selected peptide antigens in 327 patients with IBD, assessing associations with fatigue severity across quartiles and in a remission sub-cohort. No individual antibody remained significant after multiple testing correction. However, aggregation-based analyses identified recurring differences involving Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), influenza virus, and Staphylococcus antigens. Higher fatigue was associated with lower responses to EBV early antigen protein D (EA-D) and higher responses to EBV nuclear antigens (EBNA-1, EBNA-3), as well as influenza M1/M2 proteins and Staphylococcus clumping factor B. These patterns were not statistically robust and may reflect random variation or disease-/exposure-related factors. Given broader evidence linking EBV-related immune responses to immune-mediated diseases, these observations warrant further investigation. Overall, this study illustrates challenges of linking high-dimensional immune data to complex clinical symptoms.© 2026 The Authors.
Clinically relevant postoperative pancreatic fistula (CR-POPF) remains a major cause of morbidity after pancreatoduodenectomy, yet the biochemical composition of postoperative effluents and their effects on anastomotic healing remain poorly understood. We investigated whether CR-POPF effluents exhibit lipolysis-associated lipid signatures and induce defined responses in cellular model systems relevant to anastomotic healing. Drain effluents from 14 patients (7 CR-POPF, 7 non-POPF) underwent GC-MS lipid profiling. Metabolic viability assays (ATP-based readout of cellular stress responses) were performed in peritoneal mesothelial cells and human foreskin fibroblasts as stromal model systems relevant to anastomotic healing, as well as PanC-1 cells. Two CR-POPF effluents associated with reproducible reductions in metabolic viability were functionally selected for transcriptomic profiling. RNA sequencing was performed in mesothelial cells and fibroblasts after exposure to these effluents and monopalmitin. CR-POPF effluents showed coordinated enrichment of long-chain fatty acids and monoacylglycerides. Only a subset reproducibly impaired cellular metabolic viability. Transcriptomic profiling of the two functionally selected CR-POPF effluents revealed a lipid-responsive transcriptional signal across these biologically distinct effluent samples, characterized by induction of ANGPTL4, HMOX1, PLIN2, and PDK4 and consistent with a metabolic and stress-adaptive transcriptional response to lipid exposure. Activation followed a clear gradient (monopalmitin > AES1448 > GR1479) and was more pronounced in mesothelial cells than in fibroblasts. Functionally active CR-POPF effluent samples may carry lipid signals that are associated with a consistent transcriptional signal in peritoneal mesothelial cells and fibroblasts in functionally active effluent samples. The lipid-dependent amplitude and compartment-specific embedding of this signal support a hypothesis-generating framework derived from the two functionally selected CR-POPF effluents.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study aimed to investigate the effects of retinoic acid receptor responder 2 (RARRES2) on osteoclast differentiation in postmenopausal osteoporosis (PMOP) and to elucidate the underlying mechanisms.A rat model of PMOP was induced by bilateral ovariectomy (OVX) method, and an in vitro osteoclast differentiation model was induced by treating RAW264.7 cells with nuclear factor kappa-B ligand (RANKL) and macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF). Femoral bone structure, biomechanical properties, histology, osteoclast activity, co‑localization of RARRES2/CMKLR1 with TRAP+ osteoclasts and Perilipin‑1+ bone marrow adipocytes, gene expression, Fe2+ levels, reactive oxygen species (ROS) level, and lipid peroxidation level were detected.OVX model rats exhibited significant trabecular bone loss, compromised bone biomechanical properties, increased osteoclast numbers, elevated osteoclast differentiation markers, and upregulated RARRES2 expression compared with Sham controls. Co‑localization immunofluorescence revealed that RARRES2 was predominantly co‑localized with TRAP+ osteoclasts and Perilipin‑1+ bone marrow adipocytes. In vitro, RARRES2 knockdown markedly suppressed osteoclast differentiation, as evidenced by decreased osteoclast-related markers (NFATc1, CTSK, c-Fos, and F-actin) and reduced TRAP activity. Mechanistically, RARRES2 knockdown increased ferroptosis in osteoclasts, manifesting by decreased Nrf2, GPX4, HO-1, NQO1, and FTH1, along with increased ACSL4, Fe2+ accumulation , ROS production, and lipid peroxidation. These findings were also confirmed in vivo. Activation of Nrf2 with DMF partially reversed the ferroptotic alterations and osteoclast‑inhibiting effects induced by RARRES2 knockdown both in vitro and in vivo.RARRES2 knockdown inhibits osteoclast differentiation and alleviates PMOP progression by suppressing the activation of Nrf2/GPX4 and promoting osteoclast ferroptosis.
The pathogenic mechanisms underlying metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) are highly complex and multifactorial, and there are limited pharmacological therapies proven effective for clinical use. Although the natural product wedelolactone (WED) demonstrates potential hepatoprotective effects, its therapeutic efficacy in MASH and the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood.This study investigates the therapeutic efficacy of WED in ameliorating diet-induced MASH and aims to elucidate its direct molecular targets and underlying mechanisms.To investigate the therapeutic potential of WED in MASH, this study established an in vitro model of lipid accumulation and inflammatory response by treating HepG2 cells and primary mouse hepatocytes with palmitic acid (PA) and oleic acid (OA), thereby assessing the in vitro effectiveness of WED. Additionally, we employed the MCD diet- and HFHC diet-induced mouse MASH models to evaluate the therapeutic effects of WED. To identify its molecular targets, we synthesized biotin-labeled WED probes and screened potential direct binding proteins using a human proteome microarray. The binding affinity was validated by surface plasmon resonance (SPR) and cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA). Molecular dynamics simulation and molecular docking were performed to determine the key interaction sites between WED and its targets. Transcriptomic and bioinformatics analyses were integrated to elucidate the downstream signaling pathways regulated by WED through these targets. Finally, biological functional assays were performed to validate the underlying mechanism of WED.This study has demonstrated that WED exerts a significant anti-MASH effect by directly targeting SORBS1, with binding occurring at VAL32 and HIS47. The underlying mechanism involves the direct binding and activation of SORBS1 by WED, leading to multiple regulation of downstream signaling pathways. Specifically, WED regulates the expression of SORBS1 in liver tissue, improves glycolipid metabolism through the CBL/TC10/GLUT4 axis, and suppresses proinflammatory cytokines such as TNF-α and IL-6. This coordinated action results in effective alleviation of hepatic lipid accumulation, inflammation, and fibrosis. Furthermore, inhibiting SORBS1 exacerbates the MASH process and completely abolishes the efficacy of WED, thereby confirming that SORBS1 is the key target for its therapeutic effect.Here, this study reveals that WED ameliorates insulin resistance and suppresses hepatic inflammation and fibrosis by directly binding to SORBS1, thereby significantly attenuating the progression of MASH. These findings establish SORBS1 as a potential novel therapeutic target for MASH and provide a potential candidate compound for the advancement of therapies targeting MASH.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Lymphatic valves are specialized structures within lymphatic vessels that ensure unidirectional lymph transport. Defective lymphatic valve formation is associated with lymphedema, a chronic disease characterized by impaired lymph drainage and the accumulation of protein-rich interstitial fluid. Lymphatic valves form during late embryonic stages in mice, with oscillatory shear stress implicated in regulating the molecular mechanisms which control lymphatic valve formation. However, the molecular mechanisms governing lymphatic valve formation remain incompletely understood. Although CXCR4 is regulated by shear stress in blood vessels, whether CXCL12/CXCR4 signaling regulates lymphatic valve formation and the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unknown.To investigate the roles of CXCR4 in the regulation of lymphatic valve development, we utilized lymphatic endothelial cell (LEC)-specific Cxcr4 knockout (Flt4CreERT2, Cxcr4f/f ) mice. To determine the source of CXCL12, major ligand for CXCR4 in the mesentery, we used global Cxcl12-/-, and Cxcl12-DsRed knock-in/knockout (KIKO) reporter mice, as well as conditional Cxcl12 knockout mouse lines. To determine the molecular mechanisms by which CXCL12/CXCR4 regulates lymphatic valve development, primary human dermal LECs were exposed to oscillatory shear stress (OSS) to mimic valve-associated flow, followed by analysis of downstream signaling pathways and valve related gene expression.LEC-specific loss of CXCR4 displayed impaired lymphatic valve development. Flt4CreERT2, Cxcr4f/f mice showed a significant reduction in valve numbers in embryonic mesenteric lymphatic vessels. Similarly, reduced valve numbers were observed in Cxcl12-/- embryos, indicating CXCL12/CXCR4 is required for embryonic mesentery collecting lymphatic valve formation. Cxcl12-DsRed KIKO mice revealed that blood vessels, opposed to nerves, were the major source of CXCL12 in the embryonic mesentery. In align with this finding, EC-specific Cxcl12 deletion recapitulated defective valve phenotypes observed in Cxcl12 -/- embryos. Mechanistically, CXCR4 knockdown in primary human dermal LECs attenuated OSS induced phosphorylation of AKT and FOXO1, leading to increased nuclear localization of FOXO1 and reduced expression of FOXC2, an essential transcription factor governing lymphatic valve development. Consistent with these findings, lymphatic valves of LEC-Cxcr4 deficient mice exhibited increased FOXO1 nuclear localization. Importantly, pharmacological activation of AKT reduced FOXO1 nuclear accumulation and restored lymphatic valve numbers in LEC-Cxcr4 deficient mesenteric lymphatic vessels.Our findings reveal CXCL12/CXCR4 signaling acts as a critical regulator of lymphatic valve development. CXCL12/CXCR4 signaling integrates into the flow dependent AKT/FOXO1/FOXC2 signaling axis to coordinate lymphatic valve development and morphogenesis. Taken together, our study uncovers a previously unknown role of CXCL12/CXCR4 signaling pathway in the regulation of lymphatic valve development. Targeting CXCL12/CXCR4/AKT/FOXO1 axis may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for improving lymphatic valve development to improve lymphatic function for the treatment of lymphedema.
Following the publication of the above article, a concerned reader drew to the Editor's attention that western blot data featured in Fig. 5D were apparently the same as those featured in a different research article by the same group in the journal American Journal of Translational Research. In addition, various of the western blot data featured in Figs. 5, 6 and 7, and the cell migration and invasion assay data in Fig. 2C and D, were strikingly similar to data that were featured in other papers written by different authors at different research institutes, some of which have since been retracted, including a pair published in 2014/2015 in the journal PLoS One. Given the fact that the contentious data mentioned above had been included in articles published by other research groups in different journals before this paper was received at Oncology Reports, the Editor has decided that this paper should be retracted from the Journal. The authors were asked for an explanation to account for these concerns, but the Editorial Office did not receive a reply. The Editor apologizes to the readership for any inconvenience caused. [Oncology Reports 37: 2185‑2192, 2017; DOI: 10.3892/or.2017.5458].
We aimed to explore the critical role of PIK3R3 in pan-cancer, which to facilitate the development of more targeted prognostic markers and therapeutic strategies for these malignancies.In our study, pan-cancer transcriptome datasets were retrieved from Xena database. Subsequently, utilizing the Wilcoxon test, univariate Cox regression analysis as well as Kaplan-Meier (K-M) survival analysis to identify cancer types with high relevance to PIK3R3. Clinical metadata were stratified for correlation analysis, followed by differential expression gene (DEG) identification, overrepresentation analysis, and various functional analysis methods.Lower-grade glioma (LGG), kidney renal clear cell carcinoma (KIRC), liver hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC), lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD), and uterine corpus endometrial carcinoma (UCEC) exhibited strong associations with PIK3R3. PIK3R3 was closely linked to tumor grade stratification in LGG and UCEC and likely regulated these cancers via pathways such as lipid metabolism. Notably, UCEC showed high-level PIK3R3 mutations, mainly involving mutation and amplification. Compounds including Tetrachlorodibenzodioxin (TCDD), 1-Methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+), Estradiol, and Valproic Acid were predicted to target PIK3R3.Our results provide novel insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying PIK3R3-associated tumorigenesis and progression, which may contribute to the development of more targeted prognosis markers and therapeutic strategies for these malignancies.© 2026 the author(s), published by De Gruyter, Berlin/Boston.
Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is an aggressive malignancy with few reliable early diagnostic markers. Bioinformatic screening identified hsa_circ_0100833 as a differentially expressed circRNA in OSCC. Its potential significance in OSCC was then examined experimentally.Differential circRNA expression was profiled using the GSE145608 dataset and Limma software. ROC curve analysis, circRNA-miRNA-mRNA interaction prediction, functional enrichment, and survival analysis were then used. Hsa_circ_0100833 expression was measured by qRT-PCR in 20 paired OSCC and adjacent normal tissues. This analysis was also performed in CAL-27 and FaDu cell lines (n = 3 each) and three normal human gingival fibroblast cultures. hsa-miR-607 and SORBS1 were quantified in parallel.Differential expression analysis of the GSE145608 dataset identified hsa_circ_0100833 as down-regulated in OSCC. Bioinformatic analysis then predicted a binding interaction between this circRNA and hsa-miR-607. Hsa_circ_0100833 was significantly reduced in OSCC tissues and cell lines relative to normal controls; hsa-miR-607 was up-regulated, and SORBS1 showed parallel downregulation. ROC analysis revealed AUC values of 0.799 in cell lines and 0.712 in tissue samples. The predicted ceRNA network was enriched for PI3K-Akt signaling and focal adhesion pathways.hsa_circ_0100833 was down-regulated in OSCC and may act as a tumor suppressor through a hsa-miR-607/SORBS1-dependent mechanism. Its diagnostic potential warrants further investigation.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical and Experimental Dental Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The COVID-19 caused by SARS-CoV-2 has resulted in widely variable clinical outcomes. The virus relies on host metabolic pathways particularly the PI3K/AKT/mTOR axis, which regulate cell survival, metabolism, and viral replication. Genetic variants whitin this pathway may influence disease severity. This study evaluated variants in PI3K genes among 216 mild and 291 severe COVID-19 patients, focusing on rs3730089 (PIK3R1), rs785468 (PIK3R3), and rs11121484 (PIK3CD). Genotypes were evaluted in peripheral blood samples, inflammatory cytokines (IL-6 and TNF) were measured in plasma samples and immune cell profiles were assessed in peripheral blood mononuclear cells. The C allele of rs11121484 was associated with susceptibility to severe COVID-19, while rs785468 and rs3730089 were correlated with higher mortality risk. The presence of multiple risk alleles showed a cumulative effect on disease outcome. Patients with the GG genotype of rs3730089 had increased IL-6 levels, and carriers of risk alleles displayed reduced non-classic monocytes and CD4 + memory T cells. These findings indicate that PI3K single-nucleotide variants (SNVs) may exacerbate inflammation and immune dysregulation in COVID-19, contributing to severe outcomes. Overall, these results highlight a potential pathological role for PI3K SNVs in driving hyperinflammation in COVID-19 patients and may contributes to predicting the severe outcome of COVID-19 and better disease prognosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
To investigate the role of obesity-associated upregulation of chemerin in orthodontic tooth movement (OTM) and the underlying mechanisms.Chemerin expression in obesity-accelerated OTM was evaluated using both in vivo (obese mice subjected to OTM) and in vitro (human periodontal ligament [hPDL] fibroblasts exposed to compression and palmitic acid treatment) models. Single-cell RNA sequencing datasets were reanalysed to identify the primary cellular sources of Rarres2 (encoding chemerin) in the periodontium. Rarres2 was overexpressed or silenced in mice and hPDL fibroblasts to assess the role of chemerin in obesity-accelerated OTM. Potential mechanisms were further investigated through integrated bioinformatic analysis and experimental validation.Chemerin expression was upregulated during OTM and further elevated under obese conditions. Chemerin was predominantly localised in the mouse periodontium and highly expressed in fibroblast subpopulations. Rarres2 overexpression aggravated periodontal inflammation and promoted OTM in obese mice. Furthermore, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress was activated in the compressed PDL under mechanical compression and chemerin was associated with elevated ER stress. Rarres2 overexpression enhanced the IRE1α-mediated ER stress in both hPDL fibroblasts and the mouse periodontium during obesity-related OTM, while Rarres2 knockdown reduced the IRE1α-mediated ER stress. Moreover, silencing of Ire1α reversed the promotive effects of Rarres2 overexpression on ER stress.Chemerin aggravates periodontal inflammation and accelerates obesity-related OTM by promoting IRE1α-mediated ER stress, highlighting a potential pathway for future therapeutic exploration.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
KMT2A (formerly MLL) gene rearrangements are common and clinically significant in acute leukemias, with outcomes influenced by the fusion partner. Over 100 fusion partners are known, but new ones continue to emerge. This study identified three novel partners-myocardin-related transcription factor B (MRTFB), sorbin and SH3 domain-containing 1 (SORBS1), and scavenger receptor cysteine-rich family member with 5 domains (SSC5D)-in pediatric and adult acute leukemia cases. Three cases were analyzed: a boy with B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia, a girl with acute myelomonocytic leukemia, and a woman with therapy-related acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Diagnostics included cytogenetic analysis, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), multiplex reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), whole genome sequencing (WGS), and confirmation of breakpoints by Sanger sequencing, with validation at DNA and RNA levels, using patient-specific primers. WGS identified three novel in-frame fusions: KMT2A::MRTFB, KMT2A::SORBS1, and KMT2A::SSC5D, all within the major KMT2A breakpoint region. All patients achieved complete remission with tailored therapy, including chemotherapy and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation where indicated. Follow-up demonstrated durable remissions ranging from 9 to 23 months at the time of reporting. This study expands the catalog of KMT2A fusion partners, highlighting MRTFB, SORBS1, and SSC5D as novel leukemia-associated genes. The findings underscore the value of WGS for comprehensive detection of rare genetic events, enabling improved molecular classification and prognostic assessment in KMT2A-rearranged leukemias.© 2026. Higher Education Press.
Necroptosis is implicated in the pathogenesis of various inflammatory diseases, including periodontitis. This study aimed to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying necroptosis in gingival fibroblasts (GFs) and to evaluate the therapeutic potential of AdipoAI, a novel adiponectin receptor agonist, administered locally, along with its regulatory effect on necroptosis.Analysis of single-cell RNA sequencing data using the AUCell scoring system demonstrated significant activation of necroptosis in human periodontal tissues, with GFs identified as the primary cellular target. Integrated approaches, including molecular docking, co-immunoprecipitation, and immunofluorescence, revealed a physical association between phosphorylated AMP-activated protein kinase (p-AMPK) and Receptor-Interacting Protein Kinase 3 (RIPK3). Additionally, we established a mouse model of experimental periodontitis and an LPS/AZD'5582/z-VAD-fmk (LAZ)-induced necroptosis model in hGFs. Techniques including Western blotting, flow cytometry, and transmission electron microscopy were employed to evaluate the effects of AdipoAI administration.Local administration of AdipoAI significantly alleviated gingival inflammation and alveolar bone resorption in mice. In hGFs, AdipoAI effectively suppressed the activation of p-RIPK3 and phosphorylated Mixed Lineage Kinase Domain-Like protein (p-MLKL) and reduced the production of inflammatory factors. Mechanistic investigations revealed that AdipoAI binds to Adiponectin Receptor 1 (AdipoR1) - adiponectin receptor interacting protein (APPL1) to activate the AMPK signaling pathway, facilitating the association between p-AMPK and RIPK3, thereby inhibiting RIPK3/MLKL-mediated necroptosis.This study is the first to unveil a mechanism by which AdipoAI suppresses GF necroptosis through p-AMPK-mediated RIPK3 regulation, offering new strategic insights and experimental evidence for targeted periodontitis therapy.© 2026. The Author(s).
The α 1A-adrenergic receptor, encoded by ADRA1A, couples to heterotrimeric Gq/11 proteins, promoting intracellular calcium mobilization and PKC activation. In human hepatocytes, it regulates acute metabolic responses and impacts gene expression. Although fundamental hepatic functions of ADRA1A have been described, its role in hepatocellular carcinoma remains elusive. We hypothesized that ADRA1A expressed in liver cancer tissue is part of a signaling repertoire potentially linked to patient outcomes. We analyzed The Cancer Genome Atlas liver cancer datasets and found ADRA1A gene deletion in 6% of patients and more prolonged survival of patients with high ADRA1A expression. Thus, we aimed to identify ADRA1A-signaling partners equally linked to more prolonged patient survival. Through a rational data mining strategy, based on the identification of the signaling repertoire linked to ADRA1A expression and statistical correlation with patient survival, we identified a transcriptional signature integrated by the adrenoceptor and five candidate signaling companions including two RhoGEFs: FGD4 and FARP2, a phospholipid phosphatase: PLPP6, a RabGAP: TBC1D2B, and an RTK adaptor: BAIAP2. Additionally, highly co-expressed GPCRs such as ACKR2, DRD1, ADRA1B, GPR17, S1PR1, and GPR182, and RTKs like KDR and TEK similarly integrated transcriptional signatures with ADRA1A that correlated with more prolonged survival. Most ADRA1A candidate signaling partners were well-co-expressed with hepatocyte markers, suggesting that integrating ADRA1A-associated signaling networks could improve liver cancer patients' prognosis.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s40203-026-00706-4.© The Author(s) 2026.
Host microRNAs (miRNAs) are widely proposed as innate antiviral effectors against SARS-CoV-2, yet whether they actually restrict infection in lung epithelial cells remains unresolved. Two of the most-cited candidates, miR-29a-3p and miR-15b-5p, are predicted to bind both the viral genome and key entry/trafficking factors such as Furin and ATG9A, but functional evidence is fragmented and often contradictory. Here, we put both miRNAs to the test in human Calu-3 cells infected with the SARS-CoV-2 Beta and Omicron BA.1 variants, using parallel gain- and loss-of-function strategies coupled to RT-qPCR of viral and cellular transcripts and back-titration of infectious progeny on VeroE6/TMPRSS2 cells. Both miRNAs transiently suppressed viral gene expression at 6 hpi, but this early dampening was followed by a marked transcript rebound at 24 hpi, especially for Omicron, with virtually no impact on total extracellular viral RNA. More strikingly, miR-15b modulation enhanced infectious virus output during Beta infection, and miR-29a overexpression boosted Omicron BA.1 infectivity, while Furin, ATG9A, AKT3, and TFEB showed only modest, condition-dependent shifts. Rather than acting as clean antiviral effectors, miR-29a and miR-15b emerge as context-dependent modulators that can paradoxically favor SARS-CoV-2 replication-a cautionary signal for miRNA-based antiviral strategies.
Protein kinase B, more commonly known as Akt, is a family of three serine/threonine kinases (Akt1, Akt2, and Akt3) that play a central role in regulating processes such as proliferation, survival, metabolism, and migration through phosphorylation of downstream targets. Given its involvement in numerous cellular processes, aberrant Akt signaling is prevalent across multiple cancer types, underscoring the need for Akt kinase assays to assess activity, regulatory mechanisms, and the efficacy of targeted interventions. Most existing Akt kinase assays rely on expensive commercial kits, some of which employ pre-purified, constitutively active Akt expressed in insect cells, bypassing physiologic autoinhibition of Akt; therefore, they are not suitable for evaluating allosteric inhibitors or context-dependent regulation. Here, we describe a detailed, step-by-step protocol for a nonradioactive Akt kinase assay using epitope-tagged, recombinant Akt1 expressed in a mammalian cell line and isolated by immunoprecipitation. This method eliminates the need to co-express Akt with upstream regulatory kinases or to purify active enzyme from insect cells, a time-consuming and technically demanding process, particularly when analyzing multiple Akt mutants. Because Akt is assayed in a regulated, autoinhibited state, this protocol enables direct evaluation of allosteric inhibitors that cannot be assessed using active Akt purified from insect cells. We note, however, that Akt1 kinase activity in this assay is measured from epitope-tagged, transiently overexpressed protein, which could influence cellular signaling dynamics. Despite this limitation, the cellular context preserves key regulatory features of Akt1 autoinhibition and membrane-dependent activation that are absent in assays using purified, pre-activated kinase. Together, this protocol supports analysis of Akt kinase activity under diverse experimental conditions, including receptor stimulation, pharmacologic treatment, allosteric inhibitor exposure, and mutations, using an accessible, economical, and physiologically relevant approach. Key features • This protocol is broadly accessible, requiring only standard laboratory equipment and commonly used techniques without specialized instrumentation or purified kinase preparations. • This protocol measures Akt1 catalytic output by assessing substrate phosphorylation following immunoprecipitation of transiently expressed, epitope-tagged Akt1 from cells. • The assay is performed in a low-throughput format and provides a semiquantitative readout. • This protocol can be adapted to other mammalian cell lines and optimized for other protein kinases of choice.©Copyright : © 2026 The Authors; This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC license.
Gastric cancer (GC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, and the molecular mechanisms driving its progression are incompletely understood. Agmatinase (AGMAT) has recently emerged as a candidate oncogene in several malignancies; however, its functional role in GC has not been characterized. In this study, we investigated AGMAT's role in GC, focusing on its effects on cell proliferation, invasion, stemness, and the underlying signaling mechanisms. Using GC cell lines AGS and HGC-27, we demonstrate that AGMAT overexpression promotes proliferation and invasion of GC cells and enhances sphere formation, a hallmark of cancer stem-like properties. Conversely, AGMAT knockdown via shRNA markedly suppressed cell proliferative, invasive, and sphere-forming capacities. Mechanistically, AGMAT activates the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (AKT) signaling pathway, and pharmacological reactivation of this pathway using 740 Y-P rescued the proliferative, invasive, and stemness deficits caused by AGMAT depletion. In vivo studies using nude mice further corroborated our in vitro findings; AGMAT silencing led to a significant reduction in tumor volume and weight, accompanied by decreased expression of the proliferation marker Ki-67 and the stemness markers octamer-binding transcription factor 4 (OCT4) and SRY-box transcription factor 2 (SOX2) in AGMAT-silenced tumors. Furthermore, analysis of The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) data revealed a correlation between elevated AGMAT expression and poor patient prognosis, reinforcing AGMAT's clinical significance in GC progression and patient outcomes. Collectively, our findings identify AGMAT as a novel oncogene that promotes GC cell proliferation, invasion, and stemness through PI3K/AKT pathway activation. These results suggest that AGMAT may serve as a potential therapeutic target and prognostic biomarker for GC.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Psoriasis is a complex chronic inflammatory disease with cutaneous manifestations, driven by intricate interactions between genetic, immunological, and metabolic dysregulations. However, the integrated molecular networks connecting transcriptional alterations to metabolic reprogramming remain incompletely elucidated.We performed a comprehensive integrated analysis of transcriptomics and targeted metabolomics using serum samples from 11 psoriasis vulgaris patients and 11 healthy controls to dissect the core gene-metabolite regulatory axes underlying psoriasis.RNA sequencing identified 5,186 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), with a striking predominance of downregulation (5,147 DEGs), and targeted metabolomic profiling detected 208 significantly altered metabolites, including upregulated propanoic acid and downregulated L-allysine. KEGG pathway enrichment analysis revealed six dysregulated metabolic pathways shared by DEGs and altered metabolites, notably lysine degradation, propanoate metabolism, and central carbon metabolism in cancer-with the latter identified as a novel pathogenic pathway in psoriasis vulgaris. Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) further delineated strong correlations between core genes (TP53, MTOR, AKT3) and key metabolites (propanoic acid, L-allysine), forming a functional network that links cellular energy metabolism to immune-inflammatory responses. Protein-protein interaction network analysis confirmed these core genes as hub regulators within the dysregulated pathways.In this exploratory pilot study, integrated transcriptomic and metabolomic profiling revealed preliminary associations between lysine degradation, propanoate metabolism, and psoriasis status. The observed crosstalk with central carbon metabolism, potentially involving TP53, MTOR, and AKT3, generates hypotheses that require validation in independent, larger cohorts before any clinical or mechanistic inferences can be drawn.© 2026. The Author(s).
Sepsis-associated acute kidney injury (SA-AKI) is a significant clinical challenge due to its prevalence in intensive care units. This study evaluated the diagnostic utility of serum miR-151a-3p for SA-AKI, aiming to provide new insights into early diagnosis and mechanistic research.Serum miR-151a-3p levels were determined via qRT-PCR and assessed for clinical correlations (Pearson correlation), risk association with SA-AKI (logistic regression), and diagnostic efficacy (ROC curve analysis). In vitro, the injury model was constructed by inducing TCMK-1 cells with LPS, and the miR-151a-3p mimic was transfected to observe its effects on inflammatory and oxidative stress. Finally, a binding relationship between miR-151a-3p and AKT3 was validated by employing both bioinformatics and dual-luciferase assay.In SA-AKI patients, miR-151a-3p was significantly decreased, and its expression level showed a significant negative correlation with disease severity and representative indicators of renal function. MiR-151a-3p is an independent protective factor for SA-AKI, with an AUC of 0.883 for predicting SA-AKI. In vitro experiments confirmed that overexpression of miR-151a-3p significantly alleviated LPS-induced inflammatory responses and oxidative stress damage. The dual-luciferase assay confirmed the binding relationship between AKT3 and miR-151a-3p.MiR-151a-3p is closely related to the severity of SA-AKI. It can be used as a potential biomarker for the early prediction of the occurrence of SA-AKI. Overexpression of miR-151a-3p alleviates LPS-induced renal tubular epithelial cell injury.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cryptorchidism, a major reproductive malformation in dogs, is associated with an increased risk of testicular cancer. In this study, we aimed to compare miRNA expression and 3'UTR length variation in the mRNAs of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between undescended (UD) and descended (D) canine testes without signs of tumorigenesis. In total, expression of 453 miRNA genes was detected, and over 100 miRNA DEGs were identified in the UD vs. D and UD vs. C (control) comparisons. Predicted target sequences for DEG miRNAs were in silico identified in numerous mRNAs, including 12 of 19 a priori selected genes related to testicular cancer. In silico analysis of miRNA and mRNA DEGs revealed that some of target mRNAs showed significant differences in UD and D/C testes and approximately 50% of miRNA-mRNA pairs exhibited an inverse expression pattern, including cancer-related genes (e.g., AR, IGF1R, KIT, KITLG, SALL4, and SPRY4). Analysis of the 3'UTR length of DEG mRNAs identified 962 transcripts with altered 3'UTR length in both the UD vs. D and UD vs. C comparisons. 3'UTR lengthening (e.g., in cancer-related genes such as LATS2, SRPK2, and AKT3) was the most common alteration observed. Our findings provide a new insight into molecular alterations associated with canine cryptorchidism. We suggest that in undescended canine testes without signs of tumorigenesis dysregulated expression of protein-coding genes, including candidate cancer-associated genes, can be associated with altered expression of specific miRNAs, as well as variations in the 3'UTR length of certain target DEG mRNAs.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lenvatinib resistance is a notable clinical challenge in advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Androgen receptor (AR) upregulation has been associated with poor prognosis and high invasiveness, particularly in AR-high HCC, yet its specific role in lenvatinib resistance remains unclear. The present study investigated whether AR confers resistance through regulating the circular RNA hsa_circ_0011385. Bioinformatic screening and experimental validation identified hsa_circ_0011385 as significantly upregulated in HCC tissues and AR-high cell lines. In established lenvatinib-resistant cells (MHCC97H-LR), AR, hsa_circ_0011385 and Akt3 were upregulated, while miR-212-5p was downregulated. Mechanistically, AR directly bound to the promoter of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3 subunit I (EIF3I), the host gene of hsa_circ_0011385 and promoted its transcription. The upregulated hsa_circ_0011385 acted as a molecular sponge for miR-212-5p, thereby relieving its inhibition of the downstream oncogene Akt3. Functional assays showed that AR knockdown sensitized resistant cells to lenvatinib, inhibiting proliferation and migration while promoting apoptosis, whereas overexpressing hsa_circ_0011385 reversed these effects. To the best of our knowledge, the present study revealed for the first time that in AR-high HCC, AR drives lenvatinib resistance by activating the EIF3I/hsa_circ_0011385/miR-212-5p/Akt3 axis. This finding provides a new theoretical basis and potential therapeutic targets for overcoming lenvatinib resistance in this patient subset.Copyright: © 2026 Liu et al.
Encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV) infection causes viral encephalitis; however, the mechanisms underlying blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption remain poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that EMCV actively replicates in mouse brain tissue, induces robust neuroinflammation characterized by elevated proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines, and markedly increases BBB permeability as evidenced by Evans blue and sodium fluorescein extravasation. Importantly, tight junction (TJ) proteins ZO-1 and Occludin are selectively degraded at the post-transcriptional level, whereas Claudin-5 expression remains stable. Consistently, in vitro BBB models confirmed EMCV traversal, reduced transendothelial electrical resistance, and TJ disruption. Mechanistically, EMCV induces biphasic PI3K/AKT modulation and specifically downregulates AKT3. Notably, AKT3 knockdown exacerbates both autophagy and apoptosis, thereby accelerating ZO-1 and Occludin degradation while promoting viral replication. Furthermore, pharmacological inhibition of autophagy (chloroquine) or apoptosis (Z-VAD-FMK) effectively rescues TJ proteins and reduces viral load. Interestingly, the Caspase-8 inhibitor Z-IETD-FMK provides the most robust protection, implicating the extrinsic apoptotic pathway as the dominant route. Collectively, EMCV sequentially activates non-redundant AKT3-dependent autophagic and apoptotic pathways to degrade TJ proteins, ultimately enabling viral traversal across the compromised BBB and offering therapeutic targets for viral encephalitis.
Disease heterogeneity and commonality pose significant challenges to precision medicine, as traditional approaches frequently focus on single disease entities and overlook shared mechanisms across conditions. Inspired by pan-cancer and multi-organ research, we introduce the concept of "pan-disease" to investigate the heterogeneity and shared etiology in brain, eye, and heart diseases. Leveraging individual-level data from 129,340 participants, as well as summary-level data, curated from the MULTI consortium, we applied a weakly-supervised deep learning model (Surreal-GAN) to multi-organ imaging, genetic, proteomic, and RNA-seq data, identifying 11 AI-derived biomarkers, called Multi-organ AI Endophenotypes (MAEs), for the brain (Brain 1-6), eye (Eye 1-3), and heart (Heart 1-2), respectively. We found Brain 3 to be a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD) progression and mortality, whereas Brain 5 was protective against AD progression. Crucially, in data from an anti-amyloid AD drug (solanezumab), heterogeneity in cognitive decline trajectories was observed across treatment groups. At week 240, patients with lower brain 1-3 expression had slower cognitive decline, whereas patients with higher expression had faster cognitive decline. A multi-layer causal pathway pinpointed Brain 1 as a mediational endophenotype linking the FLRT2 protein to migraine, exemplifying novel therapeutic targets and pathways. Additionally, genes associated with Eye 1 and Eye 3 were enriched in cancer drug-related gene sets with causal links to specific cancer types and proteins. Finally, Heart 1 and Heart 2 had the highest mortality risk and unique medication history profiles, with Heart 1 showing favorable responses to antihypertensive medications and Heart 2 to digoxin treatment. The 11 MAEs provide novel AI dimensional representations for precision medicine and highlight the potential of AI-driven patient stratification for disease risk monitoring, clinical trials, and drug discovery.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558716 is a review article
Myocardial infarction (MI) is a critical cardiovascular event with a complex pathophysiology. This study aimed to investigate the role of the adipocytokine signaling pathway in MI, assess its potential association with diagnostic features, and explore its association with molecular subtypes.Gene expression profiles from the GSE48060 and GSE66360 datasets were normalized and merged. Pathway activity was quantified using single-sample Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (ssGSEA). To prioritize genes of interest, we applied a machine learning approach using the XGBoost algorithm alongside multivariate logistic regression. Consensus clustering was then performed to explore MI subtypes, which were subsequently characterized by functional enrichment and immune cell infiltration analyses. In a small clinical cohort (n=6 per group), the expression levels of the prioritized genes were examined using qRT-PCR.The adipocytokine pathway was significantly activated in MI samples compared to controls. By integrating XGBoost and logistic regression analyses, two common genes-IRS2 and SOCS3-were identified as promising candidates for further study. Consensus clustering based on pathway-related genes distinguished two distinct MI subtypes (C1 and C2). Notably, the C2 subtype exhibited higher adipocytokine pathway activity and greater infiltration of immune cells. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that the differentially expressed genes between subtypes were primarily associated with immune response and infectious disease pathways. qRT-PCR testing confirmed that IRS2 and SOCS3 were significantly differentially expressed in this cohort.This study highlights IRS2 and SOCS3 as genes of interest within the adipocytokine pathway in MI. The identification of two distinct molecular subtypes with different pathway activity and immune landscapes provides a foundation for understanding MI heterogeneity and may generate hypotheses for future therapeutic stratification.© 2026 Liu et al.
N6-methyladenosine (m6A) RNA modification plays critical roles in physiological and pathological processes. Our prior study demonstrated that IGFBP5 expression is upregulated in the ischemic limb, whereas endothelial-specific IGFBP5 knockout (Igfbp5EKO) protects against hind limb ischemia by enhancing angiogenesis. Here, we show that IGFBP5 deficiency elevates global m6A levels and upregulates the expression of m6A methyltransferase complex components METTL3, METTL14 and WTAP in endothelial cells. We further identified a direct interaction between IGFBP5 and the MT-A70 domain of METTL14. Knockdown of METTL14, METTL3 or WTAP attenuated the pro-angiogenic effects of IGFBP5 deficiency in vitro. In vivo, endothelial knockdown of METTL14 abolished the improved hind-limb ischemia recovery in Igfbp5EKO mice. Methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing revealed that IGFBP5 depletion in endothelial cells increases both m6A modification and mRNA abundance of FGF16. Notably, METTL14 or METTL3 silencing suppressed IGFBP5-dependent FGF16 upregulation. Enhanced translational efficiency of FGF16 in IGFBP5-deficient cells was reversed by METTL14 knockdown, indicating that IGFBP5 regulates FGF16 translation via m6A modification. Mechanistically, IGFBP5 modulates FGF16 m6A modification via interaction with the m6A reader protein IGF2BP2, targeting the m6A site at position 255 of FGF16 mRNA. In summary, our study establishes METTL14-mediated m6A modification of FGF16 as a key mechanism underlying IGFBP5-driven angiogenesis. Targeting the IGFBP5-METTL14-m6A-FGF16 axis may offer novel therapeutic strategies for ischemic disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
We previously reported that global insulin receptor substrate-2 (IRS2)-deficient mice demonstrated enhanced pulmonary vascular remodeling in response to allergen exposure or to hypoxia. To evaluate the specific contribution of IRS2 in myeloid cells to this process, we analyzed responses in mice with conditional IRS2-deficiencies in myeloid cells by crossing Irs2fl/fl mice to LysM-Cretg/wt mice and examined responses to allergens and hypoxia. There were no significant differences in the allergic inflammatory response induced by either ovalbumin adsorbed to aluminum hydroxide or by house dust mite (HDM) between Irs2fl/flLysM-Crewt/wt (Cre-/-) and Irs2fl/flLysM-Cretg/wt (Cre+/-) littermates. However, there was a significant difference between Cre-/- and Cre+/- mice in the HDM-induced remodeling of small pulmonary blood vessels. Such remodeling can lead to changes in cardiopulmonary function including increases in right ventricular systolic pressure (RVSP) and pulmonary hypertension (PH). While we did observe an increase in RVSP in response to hypoxia or allergen, there was no significant difference in RSVP between Cre-/- and Cre+/- mice. However, there was a significant difference in right heart remodeling as indicated by changes in right ventricular internal diameter and Fulton Index. These results indicate that IRS2 expression in myeloid cells limits pulmonary and cardiac remodeling responses that are induced by allergic inflammation or hypoxia.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
The RhoA/Rho-associated protein kinase (ROCK) signaling pathway plays a central role in regulating smooth muscle contraction by inhibiting myosin light chain phosphatase. While insulin has been shown to modulate ROCK activity in vascular and airway smooth muscle, its effects on gastrointestinal (GI) smooth muscle remain largely unexplored. Insulin exerts its effects through a cascade involving the insulin receptor (IR), insulin receptor substrates (IRS), phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) subunits such as p110, and downstream effectors including ROCK. The aim of the current study was to characterize the expression profile of key insulin signaling components, including IR, IRS isoforms (IRS1/2), PI3K catalytic subunits (p110α/β), and ROCK isoforms (ROCK1/2), in normal rat colon, and to determine whether insulin affects ROCK activity.Adult Sprague-Dawley rats were used to obtain colonic tissue samples. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was performed to localize IR protein expression. Quantitative PCR was used to evaluate the mRNA expression levels of IRA/B, IRS1/2, p110α/β, and ROCK1/2. The effect of insulin on acetylcholine-induced activation of ROCK was measured using a specifically designed activity assay kit. IHC confirmed the expression of IR protein in both mucosal and muscle layers of the colon wall tissue. Messenger RNA expression levels of IRA, IRS2, p110α, and ROCK2 isoforms were greater than IRB, IRS1, p110β, and ROCK1 isoforms respectively. Insulin significantly reduced acetylcholine-induced activation of ROCK.the results suggest that the colon is responsive to insulin and exhibits a distinct insulin signaling pattern. Insulin may modulate colonic contractile signaling through ROCK activity.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Background: Mitochondrial bioenergetic dysregulation disrupts immune-metabolic homeostasis and promotes pro-inflammatory microenvironments in osteoarthritis (OA) synovitis. However, the mechanistic contributions of mitochondrial energy metabolism to synovitis pathogenesis in OA remain poorly defined. Methods: We analyzed mitochondrial energy metabolism-related genes (MEMRGs) in OA synovitis by integrating transcriptomic data from OA synovial tissues (GSE55235, GSE55457). LASSO regression and maximal clique centrality (MCC) algorithms were applied to identify hub genes, and single-cell RNA sequencing (GSE152805) was used to examine cell-type-specific expression patterns. Functional validation was performed in IRS2-knockdown THP-1 macrophages. Results: We identified 22 mitochondrial energy metabolism-related differentially expressed genes (MEMR-DEGs), which were enriched in the AMPK signaling, glucagon signaling, and insulin signaling pathways. Four hub genes (FOXO3, FASN, PTGS2, IRS2) were identified, and their expression was negatively correlated with synovial macrophage infiltration. Single-cell RNA sequencing revealed that IRS2 was specifically upregulated in a synovial macrophage cluster. Functional studies in IRS2-knockdown THP-1 macrophages demonstrated that IRS2 deficiency impaired IL-4-induced M2 macrophage polarization and reduced mitochondrial membrane potential and ATP synthesis, which was mediated by the suppression of the AKT/FOXO1 signaling. Conclusions: IRS2 potentially influences mitochondrial energy metabolism, as evidenced by the maintenance of mitochondrial membrane potential and ATP synthesis, via the AKT/FOXO1 signaling pathways to maintain synovial macrophage M2 polarization homeostasis. These findings provide novel molecular targets for addressing immune-metabolic pathways in OA therapy.
Thioredoxin domain-containing protein 5 (TXNDC5) plays a role in diseases related to oxidative stress, energy metabolism, and cellular inflammation. This protein has also been associated with diabetes and insulin folding. To gain insight into these relationships, glucose metabolism was characterized using Txndc5-deficient mice. The absence of TXNDC5 lowered glycemia, which was correlated with higher non-esterified fatty acid (NEFA) levels following an overnight fast on a chow diet in males. Several tolerance tests (pyruvate, glucose, and insulin) revealed no impairment in gluconeogenesis, but rather, higher insulin sensitivity. In vitro assays using an engineered hepatic cell line corroborated the results of increased glucose uptake. When a high-fat, high-sucrose diet was administered to induce a prediabetic state, the absence of TXNDC5 reproduced the lower glycemia and higher NEFA levels observed in mice consuming the chow diet. However, higher levels of plasma insulin were observed in Txndc5-deficient mice. The insulin receptor was increased in the hepatic plasma membranes. Increased hepatic gene expression of G6pc, Irs2, and Igfbp1 was also observed in the absence of TXNDC5. These results indicate that TXNDC5 plays a role in the hepatic sex-differential handling of glucose and lipids, and in retaining the insulin receptor on the plasma membrane.
In vitro maturation (IVM) is an essential assisted reproductive technology that improves oocyte competence and supports the conservation and utilization of valuable livestock genetic resources. The Kacang goat is an indigenous Indonesian breed with important economic and genetic significance. Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) has been reported to regulate oocyte maturation through multiple intracellular signaling pathways; however, its molecular effects on maturation-associated genes in Kacang goat oocytes remain poorly characterized. This study evaluated the influence of IGF-1 supplementation during IVM on the expression of Harvey rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (HRas), Cell division cycle 25 phosphatase (Cdc25), and insulin receptor substrate-2 (IRS-2), which are associated with meiotic progression and metabolic signaling.Cumulus-oocyte complexes were collected from Kacang goat ovaries and cultured under IVM conditions either without supplementation (control) or with 100 ng/mL IGF-1. Relative expression of HRas and Cdc25 was quantified using quantitative polymerase chain reaction, while IRS-2 protein expression was assessed by immunocytochemistry. Statistical comparisons between groups were performed using appropriate parametric or non-parametric tests, and correlations among molecular markers were evaluated using Spearman's rank correlation analysis.IGF-1 supplementation significantly increased the expression of both HRas and Cdc25 compared with the control group (p < 0.05). The relative expression of HRas increased approximately 2.03-fold, whereas Cdc25 expression increased 1.62-fold following IGF-1 treatment. Immunocytochemical analysis demonstrated significantly greater IRS-2 protein expression in IGF-1-treated oocytes than in controls (p < 0.05). Furthermore, strong positive correlations were observed among HRas, Cdc25, and IRS-2 expression levels, with the strongest association detected between HRas and Cdc25 (r = 0.85). These findings indicate coordinated activation of signaling pathways involved in meiotic regulation and cellular metabolism during oocyte maturation.Supplementation of IVM medium with 100 ng/mL IGF-1 enhanced the expression of HRas, Cdc25, and IRS-2 in Kacang goat oocytes, suggesting activation of molecular pathways associated with meiotic resumption and metabolic regulation. These findings provide mechanistic insights into IGF-1-mediated signaling during oocyte maturation and may help optimize IVM systems for indigenous goat breeds. This improvement in reproductive biotechnology is also relevant to Sustainable Development Goal 2 (Zero Hunger), particularly in supporting sustainable livestock production, conservation of indigenous goat genetic resources, and food security. Nevertheless, further studies evaluating nuclear maturation, fertilization, and embryo developmental competence are required to confirm the functional significance of these molecular responses.Copyright: © Widjiati, et al.
Appendage degeneration is a notable morphological feature of some teleosts with specialized benthic lifestyles. The half-smooth tongue sole (Cynoglossus semilaevis) undergoes severe pectoral fin regression during metamorphosis. However, the molecular basis underlying rapid pectoral fin degeneration remains unclear. Here, we performed time-series transcriptome sequencing on pectoral fins at pre-metamorphosis, metamorphosis peak and post-metamorphosis to characterize the molecular changes associated with pectoral fin degeneration. Transcriptional dynamics and functional enrichment showed that no significant enrichment of classical apoptosis-related transcriptional pathways was detected during pectoral fin degeneration. Instead, sustained downregulation of twist1b, identified as a transcriptomic candidate, together with significant upregulation of ssh1, coupled with enrichment of lysosome and ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) pathways, suggested enhanced tissue remodeling during pectoral fin degeneration. Temporal expression clustering revealed heterochronic misalignment in the developmental gene expression: upstream initiator tbx5 was upregulated at early metamorphosis, while downstream maintenance signal fgf10 decreased synchronously. Distal patterning gene hoxd12a exhibited premature expression and rapid decay, losing sustained late-phase expression. Moreover, transient elevation of gli3 during metamorphosis may contribute to restricted distal fin growth. We conclude that pectoral fin degeneration in C. semilaevis is associated with heterochronic disruption of developmental signaling and extensive tissue remodeling. This study provides transcriptomic insights into pectoral fin degeneration in tongue soles and establishes a basis for future functional studies of appendage reduction in teleosts.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Obesity is associated with adverse effects on health and quality of life. Improved understanding of its underlying pathophysiology is essential for developing counteractive measures. To search for sequence variants with large effects on BMI, we perform a multi-ancestry meta-analysis of 13 genome-wide association studies on BMI, including data derived from 1,534,555 individuals of European ancestry, 339,657 of Asian ancestry, and 130,968 of African ancestry. We identify an intergenic 262,760 base pair deletion at the MC4R locus that associates with 4.11 kg/m2 higher BMI per allele, likely through downregulation of MC4R. Moreover, a rare FRS3 missense variant, p.Glu115Lys, only found in individuals from Finland, associates with 1.09 kg/m2 lower BMI per allele. We also detect three other low-frequency FRS3 missense variants that associate with BMI with smaller effects and are enriched in different ancestries. We characterize FRS3 as a BMI-associated gene, encoding an adaptor protein known to act downstream of BDNF and TrkB, which regulate appetite, food intake, and energy expenditure through unknown signaling pathways. The work presented here contributes to the biological foundation of obesity by providing a convincing downstream component of the BDNF-TrkB pathway, which could potentially be targeted for obesity treatment.© 2025. The Author(s).
Synthetic lethality offers a promising approach for developing effective therapeutic interventions in cancer when direct targeting of driver genes is impractical. In this study, we comprehensively analyzed large-scale CRISPR, shRNA, and PRISM screens to identify potential synthetic lethal (SL) interactions in pan-cancer and 12 individual cancer types, using a new computational framework that leverages the biological function and signaling pathway information of key driver genes to mitigate the confounding effects of background genetic alterations in different cancer cell lines. This approach has successfully identified several putative SL interactions, including KRAS-MAP3K2 and APC-TCF7L2 in pan cancer, and CCND1-METTL1, TP53-FRS3, SMO-MDM2, and CCNE1-MTOR in liver, blood, skin, and gastric cancers, respectively. In addition, we proposed several FDA-approved cancer-targeted drugs for various cancer types through PRISM drug screens, such as cabazitaxel for VHL-mutated kidney cancer and alectinib for lung cancer with NRAS or KRAS mutations. Leveraging pathway information can enhance the concordance of shRNA and CRISPR screens and provide clinically relevant findings such as the potential efficacy of dasatinib, an inhibitor of SRC, for colorectal cancer patients with mutations in the WNT signaling pathway. These analyses revealed that taking signaling pathway information into account results in the identification of more promising SL interactions.© 2023 Karimpour et al.
The objective of this study was to investigate how subcutaneous (sc) lipopolysaccharide (LPS) administration affects the gene expression profiles of insulin signaling as well as innate and adaptive immunity genes in mouse livers and spleens. FVB/N female mice were randomly assigned to one of two treatment groups at 5 weeks of age: (1) a six-week subcutaneous injection of saline at 11 μL/h (control-CON), or (2) a six-week subcutaneous injection of LPS from Escherichia coli 0111:B4 at 0.1 μg/g body weight at 11 μL/h. At 106 weeks (i.e., 742 days) after the last treatment, mice were euthanized. Following euthanasia, liver and spleen samples were collected, snap frozen, and stored at -80 °C until gene expression profiling. LPS upregulated nine genes in the liver, according to the findings (Pparg, Frs3, Kras, Raf1, Gsk3b, Rras2, Hk2, Pik3r2, and Myd88). With a 4.18-fold increase over the CON group, Pparg was the most up-regulated gene in the liver. Based on the annotation cluster analysis, LPS treatment upregulated liver genes which are involved in pathways associated with hepatic steatosis, B- and T-cell receptor signaling, chemokine signaling, as well as other types of cancers such as endometrial cancer, prostate cancer, and colorectal cancer. LPS increased the spleen expression of Ccl11, Ccl25, Il6, Cxcl5, Pparg, Tlr4, Nos2, Cxcl11, Il1a, Ccl17, and Fcgr3, all of which are involved in innate and adaptive immune responses and the regulation of cytokine production. Furthermore, functional analysis revealed that cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction and chemokine signaling pathways were the most enriched in LPS-treated mice spleen tissue. Our findings support the notion that early-life LPS exposure can result in long-term changes in gene expression profiling in the liver and spleen tissues of FVB/N female mice.
Although it is held that proinflammatory changes precede the onset of breast cancer, the underlying mechanisms remain obscure. Here, we demonstrate that FRS2β, an adaptor protein expressed in a small subset of epithelial cells, triggers the proinflammatory changes that induce stroma in premalignant mammary tissues and is responsible for the disease onset. FRS2β deficiency in mouse mammary tumor virus (MMTV)-ErbB2 mice markedly attenuated tumorigenesis. Importantly, tumor cells derived from MMTV-ErbB2 mice failed to generate tumors when grafted in the FRS2β-deficient premalignant tissues. We found that colocalization of FRS2β and the NEMO subunit of the IκB kinase complex in early endosomes led to activation of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB), a master regulator of inflammation. Moreover, inhibition of the activities of the NF-κB-induced cytokines, CXC chemokine ligand 12 and insulin-like growth factor 1, abrogated tumorigenesis. Human breast cancer tissues that express higher levels of FRS2β contain more stroma. The elucidation of the FRS2β-NF-κB axis uncovers a molecular link between the proinflammatory changes and the disease onset.Copyright © 2021 the Author(s). Published by PNAS.
Myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury (MIRI) is a significant problem in clinical cardiology, and refers to a more serious myocardial injury caused by blood recanalization after a period of myocardial ischemia, as compared with injury caused by vascular occlusion. The spinal cord, as the primary afferent and efferent center of cardiac sensory and sympathetic nerve fibres, has received increased attention in recent years with regards to the regulation of MIRIs. Previous studies have revealed that MIRI has a strong correlation with the abnormal expression of long non-coding (lnc)RNAs in the myocardium; however, there are limited reports on the effects of the altered expression of lncRNAs in the spinal cord following MIRI. To investigate the expression patterns of lncRNAs in the spinal cord after MIRI and their potential role in the early stage of reperfusion, a MIRI model was established in rats. After 30 min of myocardial ischemia and 2 h of reperfusion, the upper thoracic spinal cord tissues were immediately dissected and isolated. lncRNAs and mRNAs in spinal cord tissues were screened using transcriptome sequencing technology, and the expression of several highly deregulated mRNAs, including Frs3, Zfp52, Dnajc6, Nedd4l, Tep1, Myef2, Tgfbr1, Fgf12, Mef2c, Tfdp1 and lncRNA, including ENSRNOT00000080713, ENSRNOT00000090564, ENSRNOT00000082588, ENSRNOT00000091080, ENSRNOT00000091570, ENSRNOT00000087777, ENSRNOT00000082061, ENSRNOT00000091108, ENSRNOT00000087028, ENSRNOT00000086475, were further validated via reverse transcription-quantitative PCR. The number of altered expressed lncRNAs was 126, among which there were 41 upregulated probe sets and 85 downregulated sets. A total of 470 mRNAs were differentially expressed, in which 231 probe sets were upregulated and 239 were downregulated. Gene Ontology analysis indicated that dysregulated transcripts related to biological processes were mainly associated with 'cell-cell signaling'. Moreover, pathway analysis demonstrated significant changes in the 'PI3K/Akt signaling pathway' and the 'p53 signaling pathway'. Thus, the altered expression of lncRNAs in the spinal cord may be of considerable importance in the process of MIRI. The present results could provide an insight into the potential roles and mechanism of lncRNAs during the early stage of reperfusion.Copyright: © Li et al.
We explore a possible association between dysregulated FGF17 expression and the pathogenesis underlying AD, and discovery efficacious therapeutic strategies.We measured FGF17 levels in serum from AD patients, and selected APP/PS1 mice as well as SH-SY5Y cells stimulated with Aβ1-42 for 24 h as the AD model. Through AAV9-mediated gene delivery (stereotactic injection) or exogenous human recombinant protein administering, we investigated the effects of FGF17 on cell apoptosis phenotype, synaptic defects, and behavioral manifestations.Our investigation demonstrated diminished FGF17 concentrations in the serum of individuals with AD. Comparable reductions in FGF17 levels appeared in SH-SY5Y cells treated with Aβ1-42 over a 24-hour period, as well as in APP/PS1 mouse brains. Subsequent experiments demonstrated that AAV9-mediated FGF17 gene delivery could alleviate the cognitive impairment of APP/PS1 mice. Moreover, abnormal Aβ deposition and neuronal apoptosis were reduced through FGF17 treatment; the strategy inhibited neuronal damage and synaptic defects. Concurrently, we confirmed that in the aforementioned biological process, the FGFR3/PI3K/AKT signaling pathway was activated. Inhibiting FGFR3 reduced the protective effect of FGF17.This study highlights the promising disease-modifying therapies for FGF17 in managing AD. Our research indicates that the approach plays a positive role in both cognitive function and histopathology.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Stroke remains a leading cause of long-term disability, and recovery is often limited by impaired neurorestoration and glial scar-mediated inhibition of axonal regeneration. Although fibroblast growth factor 17 (FGF17) regulates oligodendrocyte plasticity during aging, its therapeutic potential and underlying mechanisms in ischemic stroke remain unclear. We investigated whether FGF17 could promote functional recovery by enhancing neuronal restoration and overcoming glial scar-associated inhibition. Fgf17-positive cell distribution was mapped using Fgf17-reporter mice (Fgf17CreERT2/+;Rosa-CAG-LSL-tdTomato). Focal ischemia was induced in the motor cortex and anterior cingulate cortex of wild-type and Fgf17-deficient (Fgf17-/-) mice via photothrombosis. Recombinant FGF17 was administered intranasally. Functional recovery was evaluated using motor and cognitive behavioral tests. Mechanistic studies were performed using viral tracing, immunofluorescence, and molecular assays focusing on the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (Erk)-serum response factor (SRF) and phospholipase C gamma (PLCγ)-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) signaling pathways. FGF17 was predominantly expressed in neurons, whereas its receptor, fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3), was widely distributed. Fgf17-/- mice exhibited larger infarcts and more severe functional deficits, whereas intranasal FGF17 significantly improved motor and cognitive outcomes in both wild-type and knockout mice. Mechanistically, FGF17 promoted oligodendrogenesis and myelin repair by upregulating SRF through the Erk signaling pathway. Concurrently, FGF17 activated the PLCγ-adenylyl cyclase axis, increased intracellular cAMP levels, and enabled axonal regeneration within the inhibitory microenvironment through downregulation of mRNA levels of oligodendrocyte myelin glycoprotein, neurite outgrowth inhibitor A, and myelin-associated glycoprotein. In addition, FGF17 enhanced neuronal survival and preserved dendritic spines via the PI3K-Akt pathway. Overall, FGF17 promotes oligodendrogenesis and enhances the intrinsic regenerative capacity of neurons. These findings identify FGF17 signaling as a promising therapeutic target for neurorestoration after stroke.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To assess the susceptibility to seizures, expression of fibroblast growth factor 17 (Fgf17) in rats with Cortical dysplasia (CD), and its effect on hippocampal neurons.Pregnant SPF SD rats were intraperitoneally injected with Carmustine on E17 to establish a model of CD in the offspring rats. The offspring were randomly divided into the normal control, epilepsy group, CD group, and CD plus epilepsy group (n = 20 each). At 6 weeks of age, the rats from the epilepsy and CD plus epilepsy group were intraperitoneally injected with lithium chloride and pilocarpine to induce status epilepticus (SE). Quantitative real-time PCR and Western blotting were used to detect the mRNA and protein levels of Fgf17 at 24 hours and 30 days post-SE, respectively. An electrophysiological signal system was used to record the firing rate, amplitude, and seizure duration of the electroencephalogram (EEG) in rats from the 4 groups at 30 days post-SE. According to the concentration of Fgf17 in the culture medium, 12 1-day-old rats were divided into the control group, 500 nmol/L Fgf17 group, and 1 000 nmol/L Fgf17 group (n = 4 each). Immunofluorescence staining was used to observe the morphometry and number of hippocampal neurons in the 3 groups. This study was approved by the Ethics Committee of the Fifth Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou University (Ethics No.: KY2023005).Hematoxylin-Eosin (HE) staining indicated CD in rats from the CD group and CD plus epilepsy group. Compared with the epilepsy group, the CD plus epilepsy group exhibited a faster rate of seizure onset, higher EEG amplitudes, and longer seizure at 30 days post-SE (P < 0.05). Both the CD and the CD plus epilepsy groups showed lower mRNA and protein expressions of Fgf17 in the hippocampus at 24 hours and 30 days post-SE compared with the control and epilepsy groups (P < 0.05), with the expression significantly decreased in the CD plus epilepsy group. Both the 500 nmol/L and the 1 000 nmol/L Fgf17 groups showed a greater number of hippocampal neurons compared with the control group (P < 0.05). The number of hippocampal neurons in the 1 000 nmol/L Fgf17 group was significantly greater compared with the 500 nmol/L Fgf17 group (P < 0.05).Rats with CD exhibit decreased Fgf17 expression and increased epileptogenic susceptibility, which may be associated with reduced number of hippocampal neurons.
Fibroblast growth factor 17 (FGF17) is implicated in neurodevelopment and synaptic function, yet its role in motivation remains unclear. This study compared serum FGF17 levels (measured using ELISA) between 74 patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) and 72 healthy controls (HCs), and examined its relationship with negative symptoms measured by the Motivation and Pleasure (MAP) and Expression (EXP) subscales of the Clinical Assessment Interview for Negative Symptoms (CAINS). Compared to HCs, patients with MDD exhibited lower FGF17 levels. Within the MDD group, serum FGF17 showed small to modest negative correlations with the ratings of the MAP and EXP scores. Moreover, multiple linear regression showed that FGF17 was a potential predictor of these scores after FDR correction. These preliminary findings suggest that reduced peripheral FGF17 levels are associated with motivational deficits in patients with MDD, warranting further investigation into its role in the neurobiology of "negative-like" symptoms in this clinical group.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The reprogramming of glutamine metabolism holds a pivotal position in the energy provision and biosynthesis of tumors. However, the regulatory mechanism of this phenomenon in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is still not well-understood. NSCLC is a type of malignancy that has a high incidence and mortality rate globally. There is an urgent need to elucidate the role of glutamine metabolism in its pathological mechanism. This clarification may provide theoretical guidance for developing new therapeutic approaches.Core targets of glutamine metabolism were screened by integrating single-cell transcriptomic and RNA sequencing data from public databases. Target expression was validated in clinical samples by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and Western blot (WB), and its association with clinical features was analyzed. Lentiviral gene silencing was employed to establish glutamine-deprived cell models and xenograft mouse models. To evaluate the effects of the target on cell proliferation, redox balance, and migratory/invasive behavior in cell culture and animal models, we utilized Transwell assays, colony formation assays, redox detection kits, and Seahorse metabolic flux analysis. Subsequently, WB and IHC served to elucidate the downstream pathways and potential synergistic effects of the drugs.Analysis of the single-cell atlas revealed a marked increase in epithelial (Epi) cell populations in the tumor milieu of NSCLC. By integrating weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) with RNA sequencing, fibroblast growth factor 17 (FGF17) was pinpointed as a crucial regulatory factor. High FGF17 expression showed a strong association with poor prognosis in patient (p = 0.0078). Consistent clinical data further demonstrated that FGF17 upregulation was associated with higher TNM stages and the presence of lymph node metastasis. Functional and mechanistic analyses revealed that silencing FGF17 suppressed the FGFR4/MEK5/ERK5 signaling cascade, disturbed NRF2-dependent redox homeostasis, and consequently impaired epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), leading to a marked reduction in cancer cell motility and invasiveness. In vivo, targeting FGF17 was shown to synergistically enhance cisplatin antitumor activity and reverse the EMT phenotype.As a critical driver of glutamine metabolic reprogramming, FGF17-activated under conditions of GLUL overexpression-stimulates the FGFR4/MEK5/ERK5/NRF2 signaling cascade to maintain redox homeostasis and promote invasion, thereby accelerating NSCLC progression. Targeted intervention of the pathway reverses malignant phenotypes and enhances chemosensitivity. These findings highlight FGF17 as a potential therapeutic target for NSCLC and provide new insights into tumor metabolism and EMT, thereby may paving the way for novel combination therapies.Copyright © 2026 Kong, Wang and Ding.
The role of FGF is the least understood of the morphogens driving mammalian gastrulation. Here, we have investigated FGF function in a 2D gastruloid model for human gastrulation. We observed a ring of FGF-dependent ERK activity that closely follows the emergence of primitive streak (PS)-like cells but expands further inward. This ERK activity pattern depends on localized activation of basolateral FGF receptor 1 (FGFR1) by endogenous FGF gradients and is required for PS-like differentiation, with loss of PS-like cells upon FGF receptor inhibition rescued by direct ERK activation. Single cell transcriptome analysis confirmed that, among the ligands, FGF2 is broadly expressed, FGF8 is transiently expressed during PS-like differentiation and FGF4/17 are specifically expressed in PS-like cells - similar to the human and monkey embryo but different from the mouse. FGF4 knockdown greatly reduced PS-like differentiation, while FGF17 knockdown primarily affected subsequent mesoderm differentiation. FGF8 expression was spatially and temporally displaced from PS markers and FGF4 expression, while knockdown expanded PS-like cells, suggesting FGF8 may limit PS-like differentiation. Thus, we have identified a previously unreported role for FGF-dependent ERK signaling in 2D gastruloids and possibly the human embryo, where FGF4 and FGF17 signal through basolateral FGFR1 to induce PS-like cells and derivatives, potentially restricted by FGF8.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
As targeted therapy assumes an increasingly pivotal role in comprehensive cancer treatment, there is a growing imperative to develop natural drugs that exhibit low toxicity and minimal side effects. Polysaccharides derived from the traditional Chinese herbal medicine Arisaema erubescens have been reported to show antitumor potential, however the key structural features and specific molecular targets responsible for their pharmacological effects are still vague. To address this question, a homogeneous polysaccharide TNX05 (Mw ≈ 9 kDa) was obtained and characterized from Arisaema erubescens. Structural analysis suggested that TNX05 was a galactoglucan with a backbone of 1, 4-α-D-Glcp, 1, 4-β-D-Glcp, and 1, 3-β-D-Galp residues, with side chains-→1-α/β-D-Glcp-(6 → 1)-α-D-Glcp and →1)-α-D-Glcp-substituted at the C-4 and C-6 of the 1, 4-α-D-Glcp units, respectively. Combining enzymatic hydrolysis, molecular docking, and protein-binding assays we showed a key core domain (TNX05II), which exhibited micromolar-range binding affinity for ten tumor-associated targets: Glypican-6 (GPC-6), glucuronic acid epimerase (Glce), S100 calcium-binding protein A4 (S100A4), S100A6, nucleoside diphosphate kinase 1 (NME1), fibroblast growth factor 17 (FGF17), proto-oncogene tyrosine-protein kinase Src (SRC), kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 (KEAP1), Galectin-3 (Gal-3), and protein phosphatase 3 catalytic subunit alpha (PPP3CA). Additionally, TNX05II was significantly resistant to α-glucosidase degradation. This study suggests a possible key structure-target relationship underlying TNX05's antitumor activity, providing a molecular basis for the antitumor mechanism of Arisaema polysaccharides.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Schizophrenia (SCZ) is a severe and hereditary neurodevelopmental disorder with unknown etiology. Here, we found that the SCZ risk gene BRD2, as an epigenetic reader, is consistently expressed in developing mouse and human cortical astrocytes. Astrocyte-specific Brd2 knockout in mice leads to dysregulation of immune responses and reduces Fgf17 expression, resulting in SCZ-like behaviors, including impaired sensorimotor gating, memory, and cognitive deficits. Moreover, BRD2 inhibition using JQ1 in forebrain organoids leads to FGF17 reduction, inducing developmental deficits involved in neural patterning and gliogenesis. The decrease of FGF17 expression was also found in SCZ patient-derived forebrain organoids, similar to BRD2-inhibited forebrain organoids. FGF17 treatment partially rescued the disrupted gene expression in BRD2-inhibited human forebrain organoids. Taken together, these findings suggest that disrupting the BRD2-FGF17 signaling pathway in early brain development may contribute to the pathogenesis of schizophrenia and may represent a potential therapeutic target for SCZ.© 2025. Center for Excellence in Brain Science and Intelligence Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences.
Prostate cancer (PCa) remains a significant global health challenge despite advancements in treatment strategies. There is a need to explore the molecular heterogeneity of PCa to facilitate the development of personalized treatment approaches. This study investigates the molecular heterogeneity of PCa by combining genomic and transcriptomic data using a systems biology approach.By utilising whole-genome sequencing and differentially expressed genes from "The Cancer Genome Atlas Prostate Adenocarcinoma (TCGA-PRAD)" patient samples, we identified 357 intersecting genes. From protein-protein interaction network analysis, 22 hub genes were identified as critical regulators associated with PCa prognosis and pathogenesis. Furthermore, these hub genes were subjected to functional and pathway enrichment analysis via gene ontology (GO) and the Kyoto Encyclopaedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG).Notably, the PI3K/Akt signalling pathway was significantly enriched with eight of these hub genes, with significant clinical relevance. Dipeptidyl Peptidase 4 (DPP4) emerged as a promising therapeutic target. Further, in vitro assays were performed to investigate and validate the molecular role of DPP4 through pharmacological inhibition using Linagliptin, a selective DPP4 inhibitor. Inhibition of DPP4 led to the induction of apoptosis, G1/S phase cell cycle arrest, and significant suppression of cell proliferation and migration in PC3 and DU145 cell lines.These experiments revealed novel downstream regulatory effects of DPP4, demonstrating that its inhibition results in the transcriptional downregulation of FGF17, PDGFRA, COL4A1, and COL9A2, thereby contributing to the inactivation of the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway. Collectively, these findings highlight DPP4 as a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of PCa.Copyright © 2025 Chitluri and Arnold.
Cranial suture formation is a dynamic process that requires precise cellular and molecular coordination to regulate bone growth and maintain suture homeostasis. The Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor 3 (FGFR3) signaling pathway is among the major pathways disrupted in craniosynostosis; however, its precise role during cranial suture formation is still unknown. Using a relevant fgfr3 LoF zebrafish model exhibiting abnormal suture morphology, we demonstrated for the first time that Fgfr3 plays a pleiotropic role in both the formation and maintenance of cranial sutures. Transmission electron microscopy and second harmonic generation imaging revealed that Fgfr3 is essential for the proper organization of the collagen network within the suture. Using specific transgenic reporter lines, we showed that Fgfr3 is crucial for regulating osteogenesis in this region. Specifically, Fgfr3 limits the number of osteoprogenitors at the osteogenic front and promotes osteoblast maturation at the suture edge. RNAscope analyses further revealed that loss of Fgfr3 led to significant upregulation of fgf18 expression. Finally, our findings show that loss of Fgfr3 results in the activation of the canonical Wnt pathway, and possibly the BMP pathway, within cranial sutures. Pharmacological inhibition of canonical Wnt signaling during suture development using the β-catenin inhibitor XAV939 restored fgf18 expression, partially normalized levels of the BMP antagonist grem1, reduced SMAD1/5 phosphorylation, and produced a significant improvement in cranial suture morphology. In conclusion, these findings position Fgfr3 as a central regulator of cranial suture formation and homeostasis, acting through intricate cross-talk between the FGF, canonical Wnt, and possibly BMP signaling pathways. These data offer new insights into the biology of cranial suture and FGFR3-related craniosynostoses.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cadmium, a ubiquitous environmental toxicant, poses significant risks to human health, including ocular surface damage. This study investigates the link between cadmium exposure and pterygium, a common ocular fibrovascular proliferative disorder, using human conjunctival fibroblasts (HconFs) as an in vitro model. We demonstrated that low-dose cadmium chloride (CdCl2, 1 μmol/L) significantly enhanced HconFs proliferation and disrupted cell cycle progression by reducing the G₀/G₁ phase population and increasing G₂/M phase entry. Transcriptome analysis identified 724 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), predominantly enriched in metal ion response, detoxification, and mineral absorption pathways. Bioinformatic screening and validation revealed significant upregulation of FGF18, PTPRC, NDP, and MT1X, alongside downregulation of MX1. Critically, FGF18 and MT1X were consistently upregulated in clinical pterygium tissues, suggesting their pivotal role in linking cadmium toxicity to disease pathogenesis. Furthermore, calcium chloride (CaCl₂, 3 mmol/L) co-treatment effectively mitigated cadmium-induced proliferation, supporting a protective role of calcium via competitive inhibition. These findings indicate that cadmium promotes HconFs proliferation by disrupting intracellular metal homeostasis and activating proliferative and fibrotic gene programs, including MT1X and FGF18, via pathways potentially involving ERK/MAPK and Wnt/β-catenin signaling, thereby contributing to pterygium development. This study provides novel insights into environmental etiologies of pterygium and proposes calcium supplementation as a potential preventive strategy against cadmium-related ocular surface disorders.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a widespread degenerative joint condition marked by progressive cartilage breakdown, and a chronic inflammatory microenvironment, where conventional therapies largely fail to halt disease progression. To address this unmet need, an intra-articularly implantable, disease-responsive scaffold was developed for combinatorial treatment to simultaneously combat inflammation and promote anabolism. The system is based on an MMP13-sensing peptide-modified type II collagen scaffold engineered for controlled release of celecoxib (CXB), an anti-inflammatory agent, and fibroblast growth factor-18 (FGF-18), a pro-anabolic growth factor. Comprehensive physicochemical characterization confirmed the scaffold's porous structure, successful conjugation of the responsive peptide, and MMP13-dependent drug release. In vitro studies demonstrated excellent biocompatibility, potent anti-inflammatory effects, and enhanced chondrogenic matrix production under IL-1β stimulation. When evaluated the rat OA cartilage defect model, the dual-drug scaffold significantly suppressed inflammation and subchondral bone damage, while promoting early matrix anabolism, and outperforming the control group. This MMP13-sensing scaffold represents a precision medicine strategy for OA therapy, enabling intelligent, microenvironment-driven drug delivery to disrupt the degenerative cycle and facilitate synergistic early-stage anti-inflammatory and anabolic effects.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Diabetic foot ulcer (DFU) is a serious problem that may cause amputation of the lower extremities in patients with diabetes. The present research aimed to assess the localised tissue expression and potential immunoinflammatory crosstalk among fibroblast growth factor-18 (FGF-18), glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) and interleukin-35 (IL-35) in DFU compared to non-diabetic controls (NDCs), while also examining the systemic serum levels of FGF-18 and IL-35. Venous blood was collected from 80 patients with DFU and 100 NDC, and the concentrations of serum IL-35, FGF-18 and blood haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) were analysed. Aseptically collected biopsy samples were obtained from FUs of 30 type 2 diabetes (T2D) patients and from accidental foot wounds of 30 NDC. Biopsies were preserved in formalin (10%) until paraffin blocks were prepared. The immunohistochemical methodology used antibodies specifically to identify tissue FGF-18, GAD and IL-35 in the soft tissue specimens. The tissue expression of FGF-18, IL-35 and GAD was significantly higher in DFU compared to NDC (p ≤ 0.0001), suggesting a strong localised immunoinflammatory role, whereas serum levels of FGF-18 and IL-35 remained statistically unchanged. Furthermore, significant positive correlations observed between tissue IL-35 and FGF-18 (r = 0.67, p ≤ 0.05) and between tissue IL-35 and GAD (r = 0.60, p ≤ 0.05) indicate robust immunoinflammatory crosstalk. The marked and correlated elevation of FGF-18, IL-35 and GAD specifically within DFU tissue, without changes in serum levels of FGF-18 and IL-35, establishes a robust, compartmentalised immunoinflammatory axis that drives chronic pathology and presents novel targets for localised therapeutic intervention.© 2026 The Author(s). International Wound Journal published by Medicalhelplines.com Inc and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Non‑hematopoietic stromal cells are essential regulators of hematopoiesis; however, their contribution to leukemogenesis and immune dysfunction remains poorly defined. Here, we identified fibroblast‑derived fibroblast growth factor 18 (FGF18) as a novel stromal cytokine that reprograms leukemia-immune interactions. Single-cell RNA sequencing of the bone marrow (BM) niche during acute myeloid leukemia (AML) revealed the upregulation of Fgf18 in stromal fibroblasts. Administration of recombinant FGF18 accelerated AML progression, whereas fibroblast-specific Fgf18 depletion markedly delayed disease development and improved the survival of mice. We performed a pooled CRISPR-Cas9 screen in AML cells and identified FGFR3 signaling as a critical mediator of leukemic fitness in the FGF18‑rich microenvironment. Genetic loss of Fgfr3 in AML cells recapitulated the effects of FGF18 deficiency and limited leukemic expansion in vivo. Mechanistically, FGF18 binds to its receptor, FGFR3, on AML cells, activating the AKT-mTOR signaling pathway and inducing interleukin (IL)-6 production. IL‑6 acts autocrinely to reinforce leukemic signaling and paracrinely to activate fibroblast JAK-STAT3 signaling, thereby amplifying stromal fibroblast FGF18 expression and forming a feed‑forward loop that suppresses CD8⁺ T‑cell effector function and weakens anti‑leukemic immunity. Clinically, elevated FGF18 expression correlates with poor prognosis in AML patients. To therapeutically target this malignant crosstalk, we generated an FGF18‑neutralizing antibody that disrupted the stromal-leukemia feedback loop, restored CD8⁺ T cell effector function, and synergized with anti-PD-1 therapy to elicit durable anti‑leukemic immunity in vivo. Collectively, these findings identify FGF18-dependent stromal-leukemia crosstalk that drives AML progression and immune dysfunction, highlighting FGF18 neutralization as a potential therapeutic strategy.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Hematology.
The purpose of this work was to examine the function of fibroblast growth factor 18 (FGF18) in rat myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury (MIRI) and elucidate its relationship to mitochondrial function through the Sirtuin 1/peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator 1 (SIRT1/PGC-1α) pathway. To evaluate myocardial infarct size, pathological alterations, cardiomyocyte injury, mitochondrial state, oxidative stress, and SIRT1/PGC-1α protein expression, FGF18-knockdown and FGF18-overexpression rat MIRI models were created. H9c2 cardiomyocytes were used to create an in vitro hypoxia-reoxygenation (H/R) model, and FGF18-overexpressing H9c2 cells were given the SIRT1 inhibitor EX-527. We detected the effects of FGF18-mediated regulation of the SIRT1/PGC-1α pathway on H/R-induced alterations in H9c2 cells, including cell viability, mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, mitochondrial membrane potential, apoptotic rate, and the protein expression of FGF18, SIRT1, PGC-1α, and mitofusin 1 (Mfn1). Furthermore, we performed a protein immunoprecipitation (IP)-protein acetylation assay to determine whether FGF18 influences the acetylation level of PGC-1α through the regulation of SIRT1. Results showed that FGF18 overexpression upregulated SIRT1/PGC-1α/Mfn1 expression, improved mitochondrial function, reduced oxidative stress, and enhanced H9c2 survival under H/R, while FGF18 knockdown had opposite effects. Moreover, FGF18 overexpression inhibited H/R-induced PGC-1α acetylation, and SIRT1 inhibition abrogated FGF18-mediated protective effects. Collectively, FGF18 attenuates rat myocardial MIRI by alleviating oxidative stress and regulating mitochondrial homeostasis through SIRT1-mediated deacetylation of PGC-1α.
Osteoporosis is a prevalent musculoskeletal disorder, rising in incidence and impact as the global population ages. Peak bone mass (PBM), determined by bone mineral density (BMD) during adolescence, is a key determinant of skeletal health and later osteoporosis risk. Exercise enhances BMD, yet its molecular mechanisms remain unclear. This study examined combined exercise effects on bone health in early adult mice using RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis. Nineteen-week-old mice were randomly assigned to control (CON, n=8) or combined exercise (EXE, n=8) groups. The 12-week intervention included aerobic and resistance training, with physical performance tests conducted before and after. Following intervention, tibial bone characteristics were assessed by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) and micro-computed tomography (μCT), while femoral gene expression was analyzed using transcriptomic analysis. EXE mice demonstrated significant increases in grip strength and exhaustion test performance, but not in the rotarod test. Proximal tibial trabecular bone microarchitecture was enhanced in the EXE group, with increased bone volume fraction (BV/TV), trabecular thickness (Tb.Th), and trabecular number (Tb.N), along with a trend toward reduced trabecular separation(Tb.Sp). Transcriptomic analysis revealed 109 upregulated and 551 downregulated differentially expressed genes. Gene ontology analysis highlighted enrichment of terms related to muscle cell differentiation, contraction, and ion regulation. Bone metabolism-related GO Biological Process terms were specifically enriched, with Pax1 and Dcstamp upregulated and Fgf18, Scx, and Scube2 downregulated. KEGG analysis identified eleven significantly enriched pathways, including Calcium signaling, ECM-receptor interaction, and PI3K-Akt signaling. These findings suggest that combined exercise enhances trabecular bone microarchitecture and induces transcriptomic changes involving genes associated with bone development, remodeling, and extracellular matrix organization, providing molecular-level evidence for exercise-induced skeletal adaptation.© 2026. The Author(s).
The periosteum, a thin membranous tissue covering the external bone surface, is a well-established source of osteogenic activity during bone growth and fracture repair. However, the molecular identity and anatomical niche of its progenitor cells remain incompletely defined. Using single-cell RNA sequencing and RNA in situ hybridization in mouse long bones, we identified that fibroblast growth factor 18 (Fgf18) expression marks a discrete subset of cells within the fibrous layer of the periosteum that co-express genes associated with skeletal stem and progenitor populations. Lineage tracing revealed that Fgf18+ cells contribute minimally to cortical bone formation under homeostatic conditions but robustly expand and generate chondrocytes and osteoblasts following injury. Targeted ablation of Fgf18-lineage cells impaired fracture healing, confirming their functional importance. Together, these findings define Fgf18+ fibrous periosteal cells as a reserve progenitor population that is activated by injury to regenerate bone.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Oligodendrocytes deposit different amounts of myelin in each neocortical layer, but the regulatory process remains unclear. We present a single-cell map of oligodendrocyte lineage cells purified from different layers of the neocortex across developmental stages. We find that each layer contains a similar compendium of oligodendrocyte classes and differs primarily in the proportions of maturation states, suggesting that oligodendrocyte heterogeneity cannot explain layer-specific myelination. We show that signals from different classes of pyramidal neurons can control oligodendrocyte maturation and the differential distribution of myelin across cortical layers. We generated a ligand-receptor interactome to predict interactions between projection neuron types and oligodendrocyte states, across cortical layers and time, and validated candidates in vivo. We find that neuronal expression of Fgf18, Ncam1, and Rspo3 promotes cortical myelination. This work provides a comprehensive molecular description of oligodendrocyte development in the mouse cortex, pointing to mechanisms whereby neuron-class-linked signals modulate myelin distribution in the neocortex.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The adhesion of monocytes to vascular endothelial cells constitutes a fundamental early process in atherogenesis. Fibroblast growth factor-18 (FGF-18), known to signal through the fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (FGFR1), has emerging roles in maintaining vascular homeostasis, but its precise function in endothelial inflammation remains unclear. The protective role of recombinant human FGF-18 (rhFGF-18) against oxidized low-density lipoprotein (ox-LDL)-induced endothelial injury and its mechanism were investigated. We found that ox-LDL downregulated phospho-FGFR1 in human aortic vascular endothelial cells (HAVECs) dose- and time-dependently. rhFGF-18 treatment markedly suppressed ox-LDL-induced upregulation of the scavenger receptor LOX-1 and key pro-inflammatory factors (TNF-α, MCP-1, COX-2, and PGE2). Subsequently, rhFGF-18 reduced the expression of adhesion molecules VCAM-1 and ICAM-1, thereby decreasing THP-1 monocyte adhesion to HAVECs. Mechanistic investigations revealed that rhFGF-18 inhibits ox-LDL-induced phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of the transcriptional regulator TRIM28. Importantly, TRIM28 overexpression reversed the anti-inflammatory and anti-adhesive benefits of rhFGF-18. Collectively, this study identifies the FGF-18/TRIM28 axis as a crucial mechanism alleviating endothelial inflammation and monocyte adhesion, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target for atherosclerosis.
Endocrine fibroblast growth factors (FGF19 subfamily) play a key role in regulating metabolic homeostasis in vertebrates. However, their functional diversification in salmonids remains poorly understood. In this study, we conducted an integrative characterisation of Fgf19 and Fgf21 signalling in rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) by combining phylogenetic, structural and expression analyses. Phylogenetic analyses revealed the conservation of single fgf19 and fgf21 genes, despite the extensive expansion of receptors post-Ss4R (salmonid-specific fourth-round whole genome duplication). Structural modelling and molecular dynamics simulations demonstrated the stable interactions of both ligands to multiple Fgfr isoforms, with receptor-specific energetic profiles and conserved core interaction residues. Tissue expression profiling revealed clear differences from mammalian models, such as predominant hepatic fgf19 expression and the absence of hepatic fgf21 under basal conditions. In addition, there were complex and tissue-dependent distributions of fgfr and klotho transcripts. These findings support a receptor-driven diversification model of endocrine Fgf signalling in salmonids, suggesting enhanced endocrine plasticity associated with the retention of receptors following post-genomic duplication. Taken together, our findings provide new insights into the structural and regulatory organisation of endocrine Fgf signalling, as well as its potential role in metabolic regulation in rainbow trout.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Cholestatic liver fibrosis is a progressive liver disease characterized by disrupted bile acid homeostasis, persistent inflammation, and excessive extracellular matrix deposition, for which effective pharmacological therapies remain limited. Although Notoginsenoside R1 (NG-R1), a major bioactive saponin from Panax notoginseng, exhibits anti-fibrotic activity in experimental liver injury, its disease-specific mechanism in cholestatic liver fibrosis remains unclear. Here, C57BL/6 mice subjected to bile duct ligation (BDL) were treated with NG-R1 for 14 days. NG-R1 significantly improved liver function, alleviated hepatic and intestinal injury, suppressed inflammatory responses, and attenuated liver fibrosis. Mechanistically, NG-R1 restored intestinal FXR-FGF15 endocrine signaling by enhancing ileal FXR expression and increasing circulating FGF15 levels, thereby contributing to improved gut-liver bile acid homeostasis. Consistent with these changes, hepatic CYP7A1 expression was reduced, bile acid transporters were coordinately regulated (upregulation of BSEP and OSTα/β and downregulation of NTCP), and hepatic bile acid accumulation was decreased. In Caco-2 cells, NG-R1 increased the expression of FXR, FGF19, Occludin, and ZO-1, whereas these effects were partially abolished by the FXR antagonist guggulsterone, supporting direct activation of intestinal FXR signaling. NG-R1 also partially corrected BDL-induced gut microbial dysbiosis. Collectively, these findings suggest that modulation of the intestinal FXR-FGF15 endocrine axis and restoration of gut-liver bile acid homeostasis contribute to the protective effects of NG-R1 against cholestatic liver fibrosis, providing a mechanistic basis for its therapeutic potential.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
ObjectivePrevious studies have suggested potential associations between cathepsins and cholelithiasis. This study aimed to investigate the potential causal relationships among cathepsins, inflammatory proteins, and cholelithiasis using Mendelian randomization (MR), and to explore whether inflammatory proteins mediate the association between cathepsins and cholelithiasis.MethodsWe conducted a two-sample MR study using genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary statistics for cathepsins, inflammatory proteins, and cholelithiasis. Genetic associations for cathepsins were obtained from the INTERVAL study of European-ancestry individuals. GWAS data for inflammatory proteins and cholelithiasis were obtained from publicly available datasets, including European-ancestry cholelithiasis datasets from FinnGen and GCST90044196. The inverse variance weighted method was used as the primary MR analysis, with complementary and sensitivity analyses performed to assess the robustness of the findings. Multivariable and mediation MR analyses were performed to evaluate whether inflammatory proteins mediated the pathway from cathepsins to cholelithiasis.ResultsAfter correction for multiple testing, genetically predicted cathepsin B was associated with an increased risk of cholelithiasis. Mediation analyses suggested that part of the effect of cathepsin B on cholelithiasis may be mediated by fibroblast growth factor 19 (FGF19) and interleukin-6 levels. In the reverse MR analysis, genetically predicted cholelithiasis showed potential associations with two cathepsins and twelve inflammatory proteins.ConclusionsThis MR study provides genetic evidence for a potential association between cathepsin B and increased cholelithiasis risk. FGF19 and interleukin-6 may serve as partial mediators in this association.
Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy (ICP) affects 0.5-5.6 % of pregnancies and involves bile acid transport defects (ABCB11, ABCB4, ATP8B1). BAAT mutations classically cause neonatal familial hypercholanemia type 3 (FHCA3), with five previously identified pathogenic variants in the catalytic domains. We report a rare adult-onset homozygous BAAT missense mutation (c.1203G>T; p.Glu401Asp) in a 41-year-old Indian woman with third-trimester ICP, postpartum-persistent hypercholanemia, and severe hypertriglyceridemia. This novel BAAT substitution occurs at codon 401 (C-terminal, non-catalytic), yielding conflicting in silico predictions (CADD: 22.5 pathogenic vs. REVEL: 0.211 benign). However, classified as a Variant of Uncertain Significance, its homozygosity and phenotypic correlation support plausibility, pending family segregation, bile acid profiling, or functional assays. Proposedly unconjugated primary bile acids impair ileal FXR activation, thereby disrupting FGF19-SHP-mediated repression of SREBP-1c lipogenesis, a process compounded by insulin resistance. This case represents a rare adult BAAT-ICP association and BAAT-related FXR-SREBP dysregulation, expanding the low-GGT cholestasis spectrum per EASL guidelines. Glycocholic acid and FXR agonists may offer targeted therapies.© 2026 Indian National Association for Study of the Liver. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42491058 is a review article
To investigate the potential causal relationship between inflammatory cytokines and type 2 diabetes (T2D) using two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) and to explore the transferability of inflammatory genetic susceptibility in a Mongolian population through polygenic score (PGS) analysis.A two-sample MR analysis was conducted using genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary statistics. Inflammatory cytokine data were obtained from protein quantitative trait locus GWAS datasets (GCST90274758-GCST90274848), and T2D summary statistics were derived from the IEU Open GWAS database (ebi-a-GCST006867). The inverse variance weighted method was used as the primary MR approach, complemented by sensitivity analyses. In an independent Mongolian cohort (N = 351), a PGS was constructed from directly genotyped cytokine-associated SNPs. We assessed PGS-T2D associations using logistic regression adjusted for age, sex, and principal components (PCs), with sensitivity analyses to determine the optimal PC number.In the European population, genetically predicted higher FGF-21 levels were associated with an increased risk of T2D (OR = 1.141, 95% CI: 1.032-1.261, P = 0.010), and IL-5 also showed a positive association with T2D risk (OR = 1.114, 95% CI: 1.004-1.237, P = 0.042). In contrast, ARTN, CD5, CSF-1, CXCL10, CXCL9, FGF-19, and SLAMF1 were associated with lower T2D risk. In the Mongolian population, the PGS for inflammation-related cytokine levels demonstrated a significant association with T2D status across models adjusting for 0 to 6 principal components (all P< 0.05). In the full model (adjusted for age, sex, and the first 4 PCs), each 1-SD increase in the PGS corresponded to a 25.4% increase in the odds of T2D (OR = 1.254, 95% CI: 1.005-1.575, P = 0.048; AUC = 0.625). These findings are suggestive and exploratory, necessitating further validation in independent cohorts.This study identified nine inflammatory cytokines with potential causal associations with T2D in European populations. Notably, in a Mongolian cohort, a PGS for genetically predicted cytokine levels showed a modest yet independent association with T2D risk after controlling for population stratification. These cross-population findings warrant replication in larger-scale studies.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Zhao, Pang, Li, Zheng, Dong, Liu, Li, Li, Zhang, Zhao and Zhao.
Pemafibrate, a selective PPARα modulator (SPPARMα), improves cholestatic liver enzymes in primary biliary cholangitis (PBC). However, whether these effects depend on PBC-specific autoimmune mechanisms or reflect broader anti-cholestatic actions remains unclear. This study evaluated the effects of pemafibrate on cholestatic markers by PBC status and explored bile acid and immunological changes in patients with PBC.This post hoc analysis used data from a 52-week phase III study of pemafibrate in patients with hypertriglyceridemia, including 9 with PBC. Cholestatic markers (ALP, total bilirubin, GGT, and LAP) were assessed serially. Linear regression examined associations between baseline levels and response by PBC status. In patients with PBC, bile acids, FGF19, FGF21, C4, IgM, IgG, and M2BPGi were also evaluated.Pemafibrate significantly reduced all cholestatic markers from week 4-52, regardless of the presence of PBC. Greater reductions were observed in patients with higher baseline levels. In patients with PBC, C4 decreased without significant change in FGF19, suggesting suppression of de novo bile acid synthesis independent of intestinal feedback. The bile acid profile shifted toward a more hydrophilic composition with reduced hydrophobic species. IgM, IgG, and M2BPGi decreased, whereas FGF21 increased.Pemafibrate improved cholestatic markers in a baseline-dependent manner, regardless of the presence of PBC, suggesting mechanisms beyond PBC-specific pathology. These findings support a broader anti-cholestatic effect, potentially mediated by coordinated modulation of bile acid metabolism and immunological activity through PPARα activation.The trials were registered at ClinicalTrials.gov under the identifiers NCT04716595.© 2026 The Author(s). Hepatology Research published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japan Society of Hepatology.
Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), Barrett's esophagus (BE), and esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) form a recognized pathological continuum, but the causal immune and inflammatory processes driving progression remain incompletely defined.Summary-level genome-wide association study (GWAS) data were analyzed for 91 circulating inflammatory proteins (n = 14,824), 731 immune cell phenotypes (n = 3,757), and three esophageal diseases (GERD, BE, and EAC). Bidirectional and two-step Mendelian randomization (MR) were used to infer causal effects and mediation, with Cochran's Q, MR-Egger, and MR-PRESSO applied to assess heterogeneity and pleiotropy. Causal interaction networks were reconstructed to map immune- and inflammation-dominant regulatory patterns across disease stages, and MR-prioritized signals were experimentally validated in esophagogastric junction (EGJ) organoids and mouse models.MR supported a causal GERD-BE-EAC sequence, with BE mediating 31.95% of the total GERD-to-EAC effect. In total, 139 immune cell traits and 29 inflammatory proteins showed causal links to disease risk. Mediation analyses highlighted M-CSF1 and HLA-DR+CD4 + T cells as central hubs. Guided by the MR-prioritized FGF19-HLA-DR + T-cell axis, experimental studies demonstrated that FGF19 promotes EGJ glandular conversion and increases infiltration of HLA-DR+ CD4+/CD8 + T cells, validated in EGJ organoids and mouse models.This integrated genetic and experimental framework delineates a bidirectional immune-inflammation regulatory network underlying progression from GERD to BE and EAC. FGF19 emerges as a candidate cytokine driving EGJ glandular remodeling through HLA-DR+ CD4+/CD8 + T-cell associated immune activation, providing candidate molecular targets for early prevention and intervention.© 2026. The Author(s).
Previous studies have reported causal associations between gut microbiota and inflammatory skin diseases; however, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Inflammatory cytokines may mediate the gut-skin axis. This study aimed to investigate the mediating roles of inflammatory cytokines in the associations between gut microbiota and inflammatory skin diseases.Genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary data for 473 gut microbiota taxa, 91 inflammatory cytokines, and 11 inflammatory skin diseases were analyzed. Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses were performed using the inverse variance weighted method as the primary approach. Two-step MR analysis was further conducted to evaluate the mediating effects of inflammatory cytokines.Ten inflammatory cytokines were identified as potential mediators linking gut microbiota and inflammatory skin diseases. Interleukin (IL)-10 and IL-18 mediated associations with eczema, while IL-18R1 mediated associations with eczema and atopic dermatitis. Fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-19 and IL-6 mediated associations with allergic contact dermatitis. In addition, C-C motif chemokine ligand 23 (CCL23), vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A), artemin (ARTN), IL-8, and Delta and Notch-like epidermal growth factor-related receptor (DNER) mediated associations involving alopecia areata, vitiligo, seborrheic dermatitis, and rosacea. All identified inflammatory cytokines showed mediation proportions greater than 5%.Our findings suggest that specific inflammatory cytokines may mediate the associations between gut microbiota and inflammatory skin diseases. These results provide new insights into the gut microbiota-cytokine-skin disease axis and may contribute to the identification of potential therapeutic targets for inflammatory skin diseases.© 2026 Hu et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42424049 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511911 is a review article
Human fibroblast growth factor 1 (hFGF1) is a potent signaling molecule whose role in cell growth, differentiation, and migration has made it an excellent candidate for wide-ranging biomedical applications. hFGF1 binds heparan sulfate proteoglycans, which stabilize the protein and play a crucial role in growth factor-induced signaling. Within the heparin-binding region of hFGF1 lies a thrombin cleavage site at arginine-136, which, although not part of the canonical thrombin recognition sequence (LVPRGS), is nevertheless cleaved by thrombin, leading to reduced biological activity. In our previous study, R136 was identified as the primary thrombin cleavage site and was mutated to several hFGF1 variants-R136E, R136K, R136G, R136L, and R136Q-to assess the structural and functional impact of charge and residue substitution. We confirmed that altering the positively charged R136 residue enhances resistance to proteases, thermal stability, and cell proliferation activity. However, the structural basis for the increased stability observed in the R136E mutant remained unclear. Here, NMR experiments reveal that structural perturbations in all variants are largely localized near the mutation site, indicating that the global fold of hFGF1 remains intact. 2D NMR experiments have also identified 14 residues whose amide protons do not undergo exchange with D2O in the variant, suggesting their contribution to enhancing structural rigidity. Microsecond-level molecular dynamics simulations reveal that the increased structural stability of the variant arises from new electrostatic interactions (E136-R133, E136-K132, and E136-K126) and hydrogen bonds (S130-N128 and K127-N32) within the heparin binding region. A stability comparison study of the R136E and R136D variants further suggests that the side-chain length of the acidic residue at position 136 is critical for conferring inherent stability to the hFGF1 protein. Overall, these findings attribute the enhanced stability of the R136E variant to unique electrostatic and hydrogen-bonding interactions absent in wild-type hFGF1.Copyright © 2026 Biophysical Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The strength of ligand binding to membrane receptors has long been recognized as a critical factor in signal transduction. However, measurements of receptor tyrosine kinase binding are predominantly conducted using isolated extracellular domains rather than full-length receptors. Here, we explore the utility of a methodology that allows the quantification of both receptor concentration and bound ligand concentration in the membrane of cell-derived vesicles. Measurements for the ligands FGF1 and FGF2, binding to the receptors FGFR1 and FGFR2, reveal striking unexpected differences in the stoichiometry and the apparent cooperativity of the binding reactions. These novel insights underscore the significance of maintaining native geometries and functionalities in ligand binding assays.
Heparin-binding growth and differentiation factors (GDFs) play roles in various cellular processes and are potential contributors to thyroid cancer. Although population-based studies have documented associations between heparin-binding GDFs and thyroid cancer, their causal relationships remain unclear.A two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis was conducted using published genome-wide association studies (GWASs) data. The primary method for estimating causal effects was the inverse-variance weighted (IVW) approach, supplemented by multiple sensitivity analyses including weighted median, MR-Egger, and MR-PRESSO. Heterogeneity and outlier effects were systematically evaluated. Additionally, key MR findings were validated at the transcriptomic level using differential expression analysis of data from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA).The IVW method revealed significant causal relationships between midkine levels (OR = 1.2099, 95% CI: 1.013-1.445, p = 0.0355) and IGF2 (OR = 0.7496, 95% CI: 0.6056-0.9279, p = 0.0081) with thyroid cancer and between heparin-binding EGF-like growth factor and malignant thyroid neoplasms (OR = 0.8821, 95% CI: 0.7873-0.9882, p = 0.0304). Heterogeneity was identified in the association between FGF1 and malignant thyroid neoplasms (Q = 20.725, p = 0.036). Neither MR-Egger analysis nor the MR-PRESSO global test found evidence of horizontal pleiotropy in the association between heparin-binding GDFs and thyroid cancer. The robustness of these findings was supported by sensitivity analyses, and transcriptomic analysis of TCGA data further revealed that midkine (MDK was significantly upregulated in thyroid tumor tissues.Genetically predicted midkine levels and IGF2 were associated with thyroid cancer, and heparin-binding EGF-like growth factor was associated with malignant thyroid neoplasms. Future studies are needed to validate these findings.Copyright © 2026 Xiwei Zhang et al. International Journal of Endocrinology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Non-communicable diseases (NCDs) account for over 70% of deaths worldwide, and metabolic risk factors such as obesity, dyslipidemia, and hypertension greatly increase the incidence of NCDs. Lifestyle changes have exacerbated these conditions in Pakistan; therefore, a better knowledge of their underlying mechanisms is required. This study investigates the relationship between fibroblast growth factor 1 (FGF1) blood levels, the rs152524 gene polymorphism, and metabolic risk factors.We conducted a hospital-based, cross-sectional study of 199 adults recruited from outpatient departments between September 2023 and June 2024. After written informed consent, demographic, medical, and biochemical data were collected. FGF1 rs152524 was genotyped using tetra-primer ARMS PCR and serum FGF1 levels were quantified by ELISA at the National Health Research Complex and Lahore College for Women University. Statistical analyses were performed using SPSS v.26; p < 0.05 was considered significant.There were no significant differences in age or BMI between males and females. However, females demonstrated significantly higher median (IQR) of FGF1 levels [333 pg/ml (250-467) vs. 292 pg/ml (212-374); p = 0.011]. Fasting blood glucose, LDL-cholesterol and hypertension were the three main predictors of FGF1 levels, according to regression analysis. Within the participant population, 38.7% carried the AA genotype of rs152524. The allelic frequencies of reference A and alternative G alleles were 0.5955 and 0.4045 respectively. AA genotype was substantially associated with both hypertension (p < 0.001) and overweight/obesity (p = 0.002). The highest median (IQR) FGF1 blood levels 351(263-546) pg/ml were observed among AA genotype carriers. At the same time, a substantial rise in HDL-cholesterol 36(32-42) was found among carriers of the GG genotype.This hospital-based study identified a potential association between the FGF1 rs152524 AA genotype and obesity and hypertension. The AA genotype was present in 38% of participants, with risk rising per 'A' allele, while the G allele appeared protective. These preliminary findings require validation in larger, population-based cohorts before clinical relevance can be assessed.© 2026. The Author(s).
Glaucoma is a progressive neurodegenerative disease characterized by retinal ganglion cell (RGC) loss, in which glial activation and neuroinflammation contribute importantly to disease progression. However, the mechanisms by which microglia-Müller cell interactions influence retinal neuroinflammation and neurotrophic support during glaucoma remain unclear. Here, we aimed to identify glia-associated regulatory factors involved in microglia-Müller cell communication during glaucoma and to determine their contribution to retinal neurodegeneration. A chronic ocular hypertension (COH) mouse model and a conditioned medium (CM)-based inflammatory system were used to investigate microglia-Müller cell interactions and the role of fibroblast growth factor 1 (FGF1) in retinal neuroinflammation. Sustained intraocular pressure (IOP) elevation induced glial activation and progressive RGC degeneration in COH retinas. Transcriptomic profiling of Müller cells exposed to microglia-CM identified FGF1 as a significantly downregulated candidate neurotrophic factor, accompanied by enrichment of immune and inflammatory pathways. Functionally, Müller cell FGF1 deficiency exacerbated, whereas exogenous FGF1 attenuated, inflammation-induced RGC apoptosis in vitro. In vivo, intravitreal rFGF1 reduced RGC apoptosis, preserved RGC survival, and maintained retinal structure without affecting IOP. Consistently, reduced FGF1 expression was observed in Müller cell-enriched regions of human glaucomatous retinas. Together, these findings suggest that microglia-driven inflammation suppresses Müller cell FGF1 expression, thereby impairing neurotrophic support and increasing retinal vulnerability during COH. Restoration of FGF1 signaling confers neuroprotection independently of IOP reduction and may represent a promising glia-targeted therapeutic strategy for glaucoma.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Craniofacial microsomia represents a congenital craniofacial anomaly characterized by a complex etiology, the precise genetic determinants of CFM have remained largely elusive. Comprehensive exome sequencing analysis performed on a cohort of CFM patients has identified a specific pathogenic frameshift mutation (c.225dupA, p. I76fs) located within the Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor 1 gene. Extensive functional characterization utilizing human umbilical cord-derived mesenchymal stem cells demonstrated that either the presence of this FGFR1 mutation or the targeted knockdown of FGFR1 significantly attenuated the endogenous expression of the receptor. This genetic perturbation was associated with a marked impairment of osteogenic differentiation potential, a substantial reduction in cellular proliferative and migratory capacities, and an exacerbated apoptotic response. From a mechanistic perspective, the disruption of FGFR1 function exerted a suppressive effect on pivotal signaling cascades essential for skeletal development, including the P38/ERK, Wnt/β-catenin, BMP2/SMAD4, and PI3K/AKT transduction axes. Furthermore, the integrity of critical molecular interactions between FGFR1 and structural co-factors, specifically vimentin, COL1A1, and FGF1, was compromised, resulting in a concomitant downregulation of their protein abundance. Collectively, these findings elucidate that the FGFR1 frameshift mutation is a significant contributor to the pathogenesis of CFM, principally by obstructing MSC-mediated osteogenesis through the dual disruption of essential signal transduction pathways and vital protein-protein interaction networks.© 2026. The Author(s).
Background/Objectives: Liposarcoma is a heterogeneous soft tissue sarcoma in which anthracycline-based chemotherapy, including doxorubicin, remains a cornerstone of treatment for advanced disease. However, variable and often limited therapeutic responses highlight the need for improved understanding of disease-associated transcriptional adaptation under chemotherapeutic stress. In this study, a bioinformatics-driven transcriptomic analysis was performed to characterize gene expression alterations associated with doxorubicin treatment in liposarcoma using publicly available data from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GSE12972). Results: Differential expression analysis identified 365 significantly altered genes, including 164 upregulated and 201 downregulated transcripts in treated samples compared with untreated controls. Functional interpretation using Ingenuity Pathway Analysis identified transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGFB1), tumor necrosis factor (TNF), and SMARCA4 as prominent predicted upstream regulators associated with transcriptional programs related to extracellular matrix remodeling, inflammatory and immune modulation, epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition-like states, and chromatin-mediated transcriptional plasticity. Enriched canonical pathways included Liposarcoma tumor microenvironment-associated signaling and fibrosis-related pathways, reflecting stromal activation and immune-related transcriptional changes. Notably, fibroblast growth factor 1 (FGF1) emerged as a supportive regulatory node linked to survival- and anti-apoptotic gene expression patterns. Conclusions: Collectively, these findings provide a disease-oriented, cross-subtype systems-level view of the transcriptional changes associated with doxorubicin treatment in liposarcoma. This work is intended as a hypothesis-generating framework that may inform future functional studies and integrative approaches aimed at understanding therapeutic response and disease progression.
Estrogen-related receptor gamma (ERRγ) drives an exercise mimicking aerobic gene program in the skeletal muscle that could be beneficial in aging. We have investigated the effect of chronic ERRγ activation on minimizing sarcopenia.Experiments were performed in muscle specific ERRγ transgenic (TG) mice and wild type (WT) littermates, at young (4-5 months) and old (24-26 months) age. In the skeletal muscle, global gene expression changes, as well as myofiber histological changes in fiber type, size, vascular supply and neuromuscular junction (NMJ), and mitochondrial content were measured. Functional analysis was performed using in vivo muscle contraction assay. Exercise fitness was measured using treadmill sprint and endurance test. Gene and protein expression was measured using QPCR and Westerns, respectively.ERRγ activates a pan-ERR aerobic program in the skeletal muscle to increase expression of 574 genes including ERRα, mitochondrial homeostasis (e.g. Mfn1, Opa1, Drp1, Fis1, and Tfam), vascularization (e.g. Vegfa, Angpt1, Fgf1), and neuromuscular junction (NMJ) (e.g. Nrp1, Aspa, Ptprm, Cxcr4), simultaneously suppressing the expression of atrophy related genes (e.g. Atrogin1, Traf6, Nedd4, Myd88, p21). ERRγ increases mitochondrial content [Mitochondrial area: old TG vs. WT, 2.00 fold; young TG vs. WT, 1.32 fold], oxidative capacity [NADH-TR activity: old TG vs. WT, 1.20 fold; young TG vs. WT, 1.22 fold] and myofiber type [2a: old TG (687±258) vs. WT (252±71); young TG (797±168) vs. WT (440±76); 2x: old TG 1348±87 vs. WT 976±219; young TG 1131±135 vs. WT 936±84; 2b: old TG (798±103) vs. WT (1628±148); young TG (967±133) vs. WT (1623±189)], and capillarity [capillary-to-myofiber ratio: old TG (3.25±0.19) vs. WT (2.41±0.16); young TG (3.41±0.21) vs WT (2.59±0.2)] and [NMJ number [old TG (67±8) vs. WT (40±9); young TG (77±11) vs WT (77±7)], mitigating age-related loss of NMJ and myofiber cross-sectional area [old TG (1570±147µm 2) vs. WT (1692.5±208µm 2 ) WT; young TG (1828.15±132.8µm 2 ) vs. WT (2109.7±296.8µm 2 )]. ERRγ overexpression preserves muscle contractility with aging [Fatigue resistance: 22.72% reduction in force in old vs. young WT; 3.11% reduction in force between old vs. young TG]. Furthermore, ERRγ maintains exercise fitness in old mice [Running: old TG (2964.52±405m) vs. old WT (910.75±6034m); young TG (2232.43±193.64m) vs. young WT (1366.76±60.76m)].ERRγ drives a pan-ERR and counter sarcopenic gene program enhancing oxidative myofiber type, mitochondrial content, vasculature, and NMJ in aging muscle. Consequently, ERRγ minimizes myofiber atrophy, preserves contractility, and improves exercise fitness in old mice. Therefore, ERRs are potential translational targets for combating sarcopenia.
The contribution of liver sinusoidal endothelial cell (LSEC) zonation to metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) pathogenesis remains undefined. We identified selective lipid deposition in the pericentral zone during early MASLD. Multiomics analyses confirmed enhanced pericentral lipid metabolism in both hepatocytes and LSECs. Mechanistically, pericentral LSEC marker c-Kit transcriptionally activated FGF1 via nuclear receptor RXRG, which suppressed hepatocellular lipid accumulation through FGFR4 signaling. Retinoic acid (RXRG's endogenous ligand and active vitamin A metabolite) phenocopied FGF1's antisteatotic effects. Clinical data revealed an inverse correlation between dietary vitamin A and MASLD severity, suggesting therapeutic potential of vitamin A supplementation for early intervention.
Bone marrow aspirate concentrate (BMAC) is a promising orthobiologic therapy, yet the impact of patient demographics on its proteomic profile remains poorly understood. This study investigates how smoking status, age, sex, and BMI modulate BMAC's protein composition, focusing on 109 analytes across inflammation, immune response, and tissue regeneration pathways. BMAC samples from 120 patients (iliac crest: n = 77; humeral head: n = 43) were stratified by smoking status (current, former, never-smokers) and analyzed via antibody microarrays. Nonparametric statistical analyses (Kruskal-Wallis, Dunn's post hoc) with false discovery rate (FDR) corrections revealed significant proteomic alterations in iliac crest-derived BMAC from smokers, including upregulated pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-17, TNF-α; p < 0.05, FDR-adjusted) and downregulated anabolic factors (TGF-β1, BMP-9). Former smokers exhibited intermediate profiles, suggesting partial recovery postcessation. Sex-based differences (e.g., BMP-5, FGF-4) were noted but did not survive FDR correction. Humeral head samples showed minimal smoking-related changes, highlighting site-specific effects. These findings underscore smoking's catabolic influence on BMAC's therapeutic potential and advocate for pretreatment cessation protocols.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
The fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family exhibits distinct yet overlapping specificities toward seven fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) isoforms, forming highly complex signaling networks through broad binding and activation profiles. FGF2 plays important physiological roles and has considerable therapeutic potential; however, its pleiotropic and non-selective activation of FGFRs can lead to adverse effects. Therefore, molecular engineering of FGF ligands with controlled receptor isoform specificity is required. Here, we engineered FGF2 variants with altered FGFR isoform specificity using mRNA display-based deep mutational scanning (DMS), thereby enabling systematic evaluation of residues within the FGFR-binding interface that contribute to FGFR isoform specificity despite limited structural information. We demonstrate for the first time that FGFs with altered FGFR isoform specificity can be generated. Notably, FGFR isoform specificity proved malleable and could be reprogrammed by single-amino acid substitutions. These findings reveal that receptor selectivity in FGF2 is tunable and provide a framework for rationally designing FGF ligands with tailored FGFR isoform specificity, advancing the understanding and control of complex FGF/FGFR signaling networks.This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a potent anthracycline chemotherapeutic agent, but its clinical use is limited by cumulative cardiotoxicity. Exercise, particularly high-intensity interval training (HIIT), has emerged as an effective non-pharmacological strategy to counteract chemotherapy-induced cardiac injury. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the cardioprotective effects of HIIT remain unclear. This study aimed to determine whether HIIT attenuates DOX-induced cardiotoxicity via activation of the fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21)/sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) signalling pathway in rats. Thirty-three male Wistar rats (200-250 g) were randomly assigned to three groups (n = 11 each): control (CONTROL), DOX-treated sedentary (DOX-Sed) and DOX-treated HIIT (DOX-HIIT). DOX-induced cardiotoxicity was induced by intraperitoneal DOX injections (12 mg/kg cumulative dose over 12 days). After confirmation of cardiac dysfunction by echocardiography, the DOX-HIIT group completed an 8 week treadmill HIIT programme (three sessions per week, five intervals of 4 min at 85%-90% of maximal O2 uptake separated by 2 min at 50%-60% of maximal O2 uptake). Cardiac function, oxidative stress markers, inflammatory cytokines, plasma levels of FGF21 and protein expression of FGFR1 and the SIRT1/AMPK/Nrf2 pathway were assessed. HIIT improved survival (81.8% vs. 63.6% in DOX-Sed), prevented weight loss and ameliorated left ventricular systolic dysfunction, as evidenced by increased ejection fraction and fractional shortening (P < 0.05). HIIT reduced cardiac interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-1β and malondialdehyde levels while elevating antioxidant enzyme activities. Mechanistically, HIIT increased plasma FGF21 and phosphorylated FGFR1 and upregulated SIRT1, LKB1 and phosphorylated AMPK, leading to activation of the Nrf2/HO-1 antioxidant pathway. Therefore, HIIT-induced FGF21 has a potential therapeutic effect on cardiac function in DOX-induced cardiotoxicity through activation of the FGF21/SIRT1/LKB1/AMPK/Nrf2/HO-1 signalling pathway.© 2026 The Author(s). Experimental Physiology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Physiological Society.
To elucidate the synergistic mechanism of "Two flowers therapy" - a Behçet's disease (BD) treatment regimen used in China for more than 30 years, namely Total Glucosides of Paeony (TGP)-colchicine - and its efficacy, safety in BD with mucocutaneous involvement.A retrospective clinical cohort study integrated with computational biology was performed. Five bioactive components were chosen, among which four were from TGP and one was colchicine; 31 overlapping BD-related targets were identified via multi-omics, finally 6 core genes confirmed. 355 BD patients were divided into combination group (CG, n=231) and monotherapy group (MG, n=124).Four active components of TGP (oxypaeoniflorin, albiflorin, benzoyl paeoniflorin, paeoniflorin) and colchicine constituted five bioactive compounds. A total of 837 BD-related targets were retrieved from GeneCards, with 31 overlapping targets between the five compounds and BD. A PPI network (31 nodes, 197 edges) was constructed, and core targets (MMP9, ICAM1, FGF2, TLR4, EGFR, NOS3) were identified. Molecular docking confirmed their high affinity: colchicine formed hydrogen bonds with EGFR, ICAM1, NOS3 (2.2-3.4 Å) and hydrophobic interactions with TLR4; TGP components formed 2-4 hydrogen bonds with EGFR, FGF2, MMP9 (2.2-3.9 Å). GO analysis involved inflammation- and immune-related biological processes; KEGG identified 10 enriched pathways (including Lipid and atherosclerosis, AGE-RAGE) regulating inflammation, immunity and vascular function. Clinically, CG had superior early (M1-M2) efficacy: oral ulcer prevalence was 0.0% vs. 21.0% (M1) and 0.0% vs. 100.0% (M2), genital ulcer prevalence 0.9% vs. 6.5% (M1) (all p<0.05). Both groups achieved complete ulcer resolution from M3. ESR in CG was significantly lower at M2 (p<0.001), with no CRP difference. CG had transient diarrhea; no drug-associated cytopenia was reported in either group.TGP combined with colchicine, a regimen used in China for more than 30 years, exerts therapeutic effects on BD by regulating core targets and inflammatory pathways. Clinically, this regimen more effectively controls early mucocutaneous lesion recurrence in BD patients, with good long-term efficacy and safety.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Li, Sun, Zhang, Li, Guan and Cai.
While protein A has become a reliable platform for purifying antibodies, an analogous universal purification method for native non-antibody therapeutics has yet to be widely implemented. Downstream processing of recombinant proteins that require a solubility-enhancing domain (SED) for acceptable expression in E. coli are additionally complicated by required proteolytic cleavage for SED removal. This work demonstrates that the Nostoc punctiforme (Npu) DnaE split intein platform can be used for simultaneous purification and SED removal for challenging target proteins. Targets selected for this work include human fibroblast growth factor-2, interleukin-2, and an anti-CTLA-4 nanobody. Each target exhibits improved soluble expression with a solubility-enhancing domain at the N-terminus of the split intein tag, which is fused directly to the N-terminus of the target. Each target was scaled up and purified via FPLC for characterization and activity assays. SUMO-NpuC-FGF-2, MBP-NpuC-IL-2, and SUMO-NpuC-nCTLA4, show at least ≥75% solubility with their respective fusion partners, and could be recovered at up to 98% purity with at least 98% DNA clearance over a single intein column. A single-point mutation in the intein tag was used to further improve the intein cleavage rate for previously difficult target proteins, thereby increasing the appeal of this approach. Activity assays performed on FGF-2 and nCTLA-4 show that this process produces not only highly pure, but also biologically active protein. These results demonstrate a streamlined downstream processing of SED-dependent proteins and also support the potential of intein-mediated purification beyond the discovery phase.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Nestin-expressing stem cells located in the bulge area of the hair follicle can give rise to multiple cell types. In the present study, we subcutaneously transplanted red fluorescent protein (RFP)-labeled SK-MEL-5 human melanoma cells into nestin-driven green fluorescent protein (ND-GFP)-nude mice. Nestin-GFP-positive cells differentiated into CD31-positive endothelial cells and αSMA-positive pericytes, and βIII-tubulin-positive neurons, forming blood vessel-like and nerve-like structures within the transplanted melanoma. Bevacizumab, a vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-targeting monoclonal antibody, suppressed nestin-positive blood-vessel structures and nerve structures from forming within the tumor but did not significantly inhibit tumor growth. Due to bevacizumab treatment, blood-vessel-like and nerve-like structures expressing CD31, αSMA, and βIII tubulin formed without the expression of nestin in the transplanted melanoma but remained RFP-positive, suggesting that they trans-differentiated from melanoma cells. Relative mRNA expression of VEGFA also significantly decreased in the melanoma after bevacizumab treatment of the mice. In contrast, VEGFR2 and FGF6, markers that are related to blood vessels, significantly increased compared with the non-treated mice. In the bevacizumab-treated mice, mRNA expression of Tuj1, BDNF, and IGF1 markers related to nerves significantly increased within the melanoma. In the bevacizumab-treated mice, nestin expression was not detected, but RFP was maintained in the blood-vessel-like and nerve-like structures in the melanoma. Since nestin was not detected and RFP was maintained, it suggests these structures trans-differentiated from the melanoma cells. The present study suggests that both the host and cancer cells can differentiate into blood-vessel-like and nerve-like structures in the melanoma.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
This study aims to investigate whether Yiqi Huoluo Formula(YQHLF) exerts anti-bone destruction effects in rheumatoid arthritis(RA) by regulating the fibroblast growth factor receptor 1(FGFR1)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase(ERK)/nuclear factor of activated T-cells cytoplasmic 1(NFATc1) pathway. Forty SD rats were randomly allocated to normal control group, model group, low-, medium-, and high-dose YQHLF groups, and specific FGFR1 inhibitor(PD173074) groups, with eight rats per group. Collagen-induced arthritis(CIA) rat model was established in all groups except for the normal control group. Following modeling, rats in all groups were treated with the corresponding drug and saline intervention for 28 d. During the intervention, the paw thickness of rats in each group was measured, and the arthritis index(AI) was scored on days 0, 7, 14, 21, 28, and 35 after the second immunization, respectively. The changes in limb grip strength of rats before and after treatment were evaluated by using a grip strength meter. Histopathological changes in ankle joints of rats were examined via hematoxylin-eosin(HE) staining, while tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase(TRAP) staining was used to measure the number of osteoclasts(OC) in the ankle joint bone tissue. The levels of inflammatory factors in serum of rats, such as interleukin(IL)-1β, IL-6, tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), and so on, were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay(ELISA). Western blot was performed to detect the protein expressions of FGFR1, phosphorylated(p)-ERK/ERK ratio, and NFATc1 in tissue of rats, and immunohistochemistry was employed to detect the protein expressions of cathepsin K(CTSK) and matrix metalloproteinase-9(MMP-9) in synovial tissue of rats. Compared with those in the normal group, the rats in model group showed significantly increased paw thickness and AI(P&lt;0.01), alongside significantly decreased grip strength(P&lt;0.01). Ankle joints in the model group exhibited rough cartilage surfaces, increased number and disordered arrangement of synovial cells, and moderate inflammatory cell infiltration. Furthermore, the number of OC in ankle joints was increased(P&lt;0.01), and the protein expression levels of FGFR1, p-ERK/ERK, NFATc1, MMP-9, and CTSK in synovial tissue were significantly upregulated(P&lt;0.01). Compared with those in model group, the rats in medium-, high-dose YQHLF groups and PD173074 group showed significantly reduced paw thickness and AI(P&lt;0.05, P&lt;0.01) and increased grip strength(P&lt;0.01). These treatments alleviated cartilage damage, synovial hyperproliferation, and inflammatory infiltration, with more regular cell arrangement and reduced matrix hyperplasia. Additionally, the number of OC in ankle joint bone tissue was decreased(P&lt;0.01), and the protein expression levels of FGFR1, p-ERK/ERK, NFATc1, MMP-9, and CTSK in synovial tissue were significantly downregulated(P&lt;0.05, P&lt;0.01). These findings suggest that YQHLF may alleviate bone destruction in CIA rats by downregulating the FGFR1/ERK/NFATc1 pathway and inhibiting OC differentiation and inflammatory responses.
FGF/FGFR alterations are recurrent but heterogeneous in head and neck cancer, and which types predict benefit from selective fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) inhibition is unknown.We examined whether response to gunagratinib, a pan-FGFR1-4 inhibitor, differs by FGF/FGFR alteration type in recurrent or metastatic head and neck cancer.Patients with recurrent or metastatic head and neck cancer and fibroblast growth factor(FGF)/FGFR alterations treated with gunagratinib in two prospective trials were combined (phase I ICP-CL-00301, n = 10; phase IIa ICP-CL-00304 at the recommended phase II dose [RP2D] of 20 mg once daily, n = 27). Confirmed objective response rate (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours [RECIST] Version 1.1, investigator assessed) was the primary endpoint. Exploratory analyses examined efficacy by alteration type, with an RP2D sensitivity analysis and post-hoc CCND1 outcomes.Among 37 patients (23 head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, 9 nasopharyngeal carcinoma, 5 other; 78.4% with three or more prior therapy lines), confirmed the objective response rate at the RP2D (n = 27) was 7.4% (95% confidence interval 0.9-24.3) and disease control rate 55.6%, with no responses among FGFR-mutant patients (0/6) and single responses among fusions (1/2) and amplifications (1/6). In the pooled cohort (N = 37, including ten treated at sub-RP2D doses), objective response rate was 13.5% (95% confidence interval 4.5-28.8), disease control rate 56.8%, median progression-free survival 4.1 months, median duration of response 11.0 months and median overall survival 7.4 months. Four of five responses arose in receptor-level FGFR alterations rather than FGF3/4/19 amplification alone; because both mutation responses occurred at sub-RP2D doses, this pattern is hypothesis generating. Grade ≥3 treatment-related adverse events occurred in 35.1%, most commonly hyperphosphataemia; no treatment-related deaths occurred.At the RP2D, gunagratinib monotherapy had limited activity (0/6 among FGFR-mutant tumours). In the pooled cohort, confirmed responses concentrated among FGFR receptor-level alterations rather than the FGF3/4/19-amplified majority; because part of this signal came from sub-RP2D dosing, alteration type is a candidate enrichment criterion requiring prospective RP2D testing.ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT03758664 (registered 29 November, 2018) and NCT05372120 (registered 12 May, 2022, retrospectively).© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Spent mammalian cell culture media are commonly discarded despite having residual nutrients that could be repurposed for microbial biomanufacturing. Fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2) is a major cost contributor in serum-free cell culture media, motivating the development of economical production strategies. Here, we investigated the use of fortified spent cell culture media for FGF2 production using Lactococcus lactis, a GRAS microorganism, and integrated statistical optimization, kinetic modeling, and continuous bioprocessing. A Box-Behnken design identified 10 g/L glucose, 35 °C cultivation temperature, and 100 ng/mL nisin as optimal conditions for enhancing intracellular and secreted FGF2 production. Subsequently, kinetic model comprising of ordinary differential equations was developed to describe temporal profiles of intracellular & secreted FGF2, glucose, lactate, and biomass. The model integrated Monod-type kinetics for growth and substrate consumption, and Luedeking-Piret kinetics to account for FGF2 production. Leveraging this model, we demonstrated that model could guide selection of dilution rate to maximize FGF2 production. To advance toward continuous manufacturing, chemostat cultivation was coupled with depth and crossflow filtration to enable real-time cell separation and FGF2 concentration. The concentrated FGF2 demonstrated comparable bioactivity to commercial FGF2 in proliferating Anguilla japonica (Japanese eel) pre-adipocytic cells. Overall, our study demonstrated utilization of design of experiments (DoE) alongside kinetic modelling to optimize bioprocess conditions, achieving FGF2 production of 16 mg/L and 396 µg/L titres for intracellular and secreted forms, respectively. The circular bioprocess, use of predictive modelling and integration of continuous upstream-downstream operation provides an opportunity for growth factor manufacturing from L. lactis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC) is an aggressive malignancy with limited molecular characterization in advanced disease. FGFR3 alterations are well established in low-grade urothelial carcinoma, but their prevalence, stability, and biological significance in locally advanced and metastatic UTUC remain only partially defined. We performed an integrated morphologic, immunohistochemical, and molecular analysis of 24 locally advanced and/or metastatic UTUC from 20 patients. FGFR3 status was assessed by RT-PCR across multiple tumor compartments, including biopsies, primary tumors, lymph-node metastases, and distant metastatic sites. Immunohistochemistry included CK20, CK5, GATA3, p53, and mismatch repair proteins. Targeted next-generation sequencing (NGS) was used to characterize co-occurring genomic alterations and to assess concordance with p53 immunophenotype. FGFR3 alterations were identified in 50% of patients and in 54.2% of analyzed tumors. FGFR3 status showed high intra-patient stability, with concordance between primary tumors and distant metastases in 90% of cases, whereas concordance with lymph node metastases was lower (50%), suggesting site-specific clonal divergence. Despite advanced stage, 92.3% of FGFR3-altered tumors displayed papillary urothelial carcinoma morphology, and most showed a luminal immunophenotype (61.5% by CK20/CK5 and 69.2% by GATA3/CK5). Targeted NGS revealed additional pathogenic alterations in 75% of patients, most frequently involving RTK/RAS/MAPK signaling (70%), cell-cycle regulation (25%), and PI3K/AKT pathway components (10%). TP53 mutations co-occurred with FGFR3 alterations in 60% of FGFR3-mutated patients and showed 90.4% concordance with p53 immunohistochemistry. Finally, a few cases exhibited complex, multi-site FGFR3 mutational patterns, consistent with intratumoral clonal evolutions. In conclusion, FGFR3 alterations are frequent and remarkably stable in advanced UTUC, even in high-grade and metastatic disease. These findings support the reliability of FGFR3 testing on limited diagnostic material and reinforce its relevance for therapeutic stratification. UTUC emerges as a molecularly dynamic disease in which early oncogenic drivers such as FGFR3 continue to shape tumor biology and therapeutic vulnerability at advanced stages.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
To assess neurodevelopmental and neurological features, including neuroimaging abnormalities, in children with molecularly confirmed hypochondroplasia.A retrospective cohort study of children with molecularly confirmed hypochondroplasia seen at Evelina London Children's Hospital skeletal dysplasia service was performed. Data collected included referral characteristics, neuroimaging findings, special educational needs, and diagnosed neurodevelopmental disorders. Statistical comparisons with UK population prevalence were performed using χ2 testing for educational outcomes and exact binomial testing for neurodevelopmental disorders, with Bonferroni-adjusted p-values reported for multiple comparisons.Forty-four children (24 females and 20 males; median age 9 years 10 months [interquartile range 6 years 7 months-15 years 7 months]) with molecularly confirmed hypochondroplasia were included. Twenty-five had received brain imaging with hippocampal malrotation (HIMAL) identified in 23 (92%). Among school-aged children, 71% required special educational support and 29% had formal education, health, and care plans (EHCPs), statistically higher than both UK population prevalence and previously reported hypochondroplasia prevalence. Formally diagnosed neurodevelopment disorders affected 20.5% of the cohort. Specific learning disorders remained significantly more common than UK population prevalence estimates after Bonferroni correction, with higher observed autism and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder rates also identified.Hypochondroplasia is associated with a substantial burden of neurodevelopmental and neurological abnormalities, including a high prevalence of HIMAL, which exceeds previous estimates. These findings support the need for clinical guidelines, developmental surveillance, and further research into fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3)-related brain development.© 2026 The Author(s). Developmental Medicine & Child Neurology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Mac Keith Press.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42557383 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552286 is a review article
CXCL13+ T cells and LAMP3+ dendritic cells (DCs) are pivotal players in orchestrating anti-tumor immune responses, particularly within tumor tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS). However, their heterogeneity, differentiation trajectories, and clinical relevance in bladder cancer remain incompletely defined. This study integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data (16 bladder cancer patients, 113,905 post-quality-control cells) and spatial transcriptomics to characterize CXCL13+ T cell/LAMP3+ DC subsets, their differentiation pathways (via Velocyto trajectory analysis), and intercellular crosstalk (via receptor-ligand mapping). A risk model (DTscore) was constructed using marker genes of these cells and validated in the IMvigor210 (atezolizumab-treated bladder cancer) and TCGA-BLCA cohorts. scRNA-seq clustering identified 10 immune and 3 nonimmune cell types, with T cells stratified into 8 subpopulations (including CD4+CXCL13+ T cells and CD8+CXCL13+ T cells) and DCs into 9 subgroups (including LAMP3+ DCs). Receptor-ligand mapping and spatial transcriptomics confirmed functional crosstalk between CXCL13+ T cells and LAMP3+ DCs via key pairs (e.g., CCR7-CCL19, CXCR5-CXCL13, PDCD1-CD274) within TLS. The DTscore was developed using 8 marker genes (TSHZ2, ALOX5AP, GADD45G, TXN, CHN1, CCL19, CXCL13, ICA1) and exhibited robust prognostic and predictive performance: In the IMvigor210 cohort, high DTscore correlated with significantly poorer overall survival (OS) and a 3.27-fold lower immunotherapy response rate (11% vs. 36%, p = 4.23e-07); multivariate Cox regression confirmed DTscore as an independent OS predictor (hazard ratio = 1.97, p < 0.001). DTscore retained prognostic value in TCGA-BLCA (OS: p = 0.003; disease-specific survival: p < 0.001) and effectively predicted atezolizumab response even in the "immune desert" phenotype (p = 0.04). Combining DTscore with tumor mutational burden/tumor neoantigen burden yielded an AUC of 0.8122 for response prediction. Additionally, high DTscore was associated with higher OS hazard ratios in patients with wild-type TTN, RB1, EP300, or FGFR3 (all p < 0.01), while FGFR3 mutations correlated with lower immune checkpoint/CXCL13 expression. This study delineates the heterogeneity and interactions of CXCL13+ T cell/LAMP3+ DC subsets in bladder cancer TLS and validates DTscore as a robust tool for predicting OS and immunotherapy response, offering a potential guide for personalized bladder cancer treatment.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42550920 is a review article
Metastatic tumors to the pancreas account for approximately 2% of all pancreatic malignancies, and pancreatic metastasis from distal cholangiocarcinoma is extremely rare. Differentiating pancreatic metastasis of cholangiocarcinoma from primary pancreatic cancer is often difficult, as both typically present as adenocarcinoma with similar immunohistochemical features.A 65-year-old man underwent subtotal stomach-preserving pancreatoduodenectomy (SSPPD) for distal cholangiocarcinoma. He was diagnosed with pT3N0M0, Stage IIB according to the UICC TNM classification, 8th edition. Seven years after surgery, a routine blood test revealed an elevated serum carbohydrate antigen 19-9 level. Abdominal MRI and CT demonstrated 2 small masses, each approximately 10 mm in diameter, in the remnant pancreas without evidence of distant metastasis. Both lesions were diagnosed as adenocarcinoma by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration (EUS-FNA), suggesting either pancreatic metastases from distal cholangiocarcinoma or primary pancreatic cancer in the remnant pancreas. Completion total pancreatectomy with splenectomy was therefore performed. Histopathological examination showed that both lesions in the remnant pancreatic tail were morphologically similar to the initial cholangiocarcinoma. However, the possibility of primary pancreatic cancer could not be completely excluded. Comprehensive genomic profiling (CGP) of the initial cholangiocarcinoma and the remnant pancreatic tumor revealed a shared TP53 H214R alteration, supporting the diagnosis of pancreatic metastases from distal cholangiocarcinoma. In addition, CGP identified BRCA1 loss and an FGFR3 alteration in the remnant pancreatic tumor as potentially actionable findings, although their therapeutic relevance in cholangiocarcinoma remains uncertain.We report a rare case of multiple pancreatic metastases occurring 7 years after resection of distal cholangiocarcinoma. Evaluation of genetic alterations provided supportive evidence to aid in distinguishing metastatic disease from primary pancreatic cancer in the remnant pancreas. In addition, these findings also suggested potentially relevant therapeutic targets.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Japan Surgical Society.
The clinical outcome of urothelial carcinoma presents significant variability, reflecting its molecular composition, epidemiologic attributes, and primary site of origin. Despite histological similarities, upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC) and bladder urothelial carcinoma (BLCA) represent two distinct disease entities with disparate treatment responses and mutational patterns.To assess the impact of molecular heterogeneity on treatment outcomes, we conducted a comprehensive genomic analysis of 231 metastatic urothelial carcinoma patients, including 175 patients with BLCA and 56 patients with UTUC, in the K-MASTER program.Our investigation unveiled dynamic molecular properties and mutational patterns in key molecules, including TP53, FGFR3, CREBBP, and SPEN. BLCA patients demonstrated enrichment of APOBEC mutational signature activities, whereas UTUC patients were characterized by activation of the cell cycle pathway. Transcriptome analysis uncovered unique biological signatures, highlighting increased cell migration and WNT signaling in BLCA, while FGFR3 and stem-cell-like pathways predominated in UTUC. Moreover, our study highlighted increased resistance to platinum-based chemotherapy and immunotherapy among UTUC patients. Importantly, tumor mutational burden (TMB) emerged as a robust independent predictor of immunotherapy response in BLCA. Additionally, a machine learning-based multivariable model identified FGFR3 mutation as a molecular determinant associated with favorable clinical outcomes, in contrast to FGFR2 mutations, which were linked to increased resistance to chemotherapy. The study also has limitations, including a limited sample size of UTUC patients and a lack of functional validation of the identified molecular mechanism.Our findings provide unprecedented insights into the significance of molecular and clinical disparities in urothelial carcinoma, facilitating disease-specific treatment interventions.
Fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3) is one of the most frequently altered genes in bladder cancer, primarily through activating mutations that drive oncogenesis and are enriched in luminal tumors. However, the underlying gene regulatory network (GRN) remains poorly characterized. Here, we constructed an FGFR3-mutated GRN using a bottom-up bioinformatics approach, integrating transcriptomic data from bladder cancer cell lines, FGFR3-mutated tumors, and FGFR3 perturbation experiments in human and mouse models. Using publicly available CRISPR/Cas9 screening data, we identified transcription factors from this GRN that regulate the viability of FGFR3-mutated cells, with a focus on p63 (TP63). We showed that FGFR3 activation upregulates p63 in patient-derived xenografts and cell lines, while single-cell RNA sequencing revealed heterogeneous p63 activation associated with basal differentiation. Functional studies, including TP63 knockdown in FGFR3-dependent in vitro and in vivo models and RNA-seq along with p63 ChIP-seq, demonstrated that p63 directly promotes cell proliferation and migration and uncovered a positive feedback loop between FGFR3 and p63. Together, these findings support p63 as a protumorigenic regulator in FGFR3-mutated tumors despite their luminal differentiation and provide a detailed FGFR3-driven GRN, offering insights into FGFR3-induced oncogenic dependency and potential strategies to circumvent resistance to FGFR inhibitors.
Acute lung injury (ALI) and progressive acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) have high mortality and limited effective therapies. Fibroblast growth factor 8 (FGF8) participates in lung development, inflammation and cell regulation, yet its function in ALI remains unclear.We constructed an LPS-induced mouse ALI model to detect FGF8 expression. FGF8 haploinsufficiency and overexpression systems were used to explore its biological function. RNA-seq combined with GO and KEGG enrichment analyses screened target pathways, which were further verified via experiments. The PPARγ antagonist GW9662 was applied to confirm the regulatory role of PPARγ.Lung FGF8 expression was significantly upregulated in LPS-challenged mice. FGF8 haploinsufficiency exacerbated weight loss, pulmonary edema, lung histological injury, pro-inflammatory cytokine (IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α) release, and apoptosis imbalance. It also accelerated collagen accumulation and elevated profibrotic markers including α-SMA, TGF-β1 and COL1A1. Conversely, FGF8 overexpression relieved all these pathological phenotypes. Mechanistically, FGF8 haploinsufficiency inhibited PPARγ and activated ERK1/2 phosphorylation, while FGF8 overexpression reversed this change. Blocking PPARγ with GW9662 further boosted ERK1/2 activation and abolished the protective effects of FGF8 against ALI.FGF8 alleviates inflammation, apoptosis and early pulmonary fibrosis in LPS-induced ALI mice via the PPARγ/ERK1/2 signaling pathway.
Gene network enrichment analysis (GNEA) offers a robust approach for interpreting the complex molecular mechanisms underlying phenotypic variability. Despite its utility, prevailing GNEA methodologies are predominantly optimized for binary phenotypes, leading to substantial information loss when applied to continuous biological traits such as drug sensitivity, cancer progression, etc. Additionally, traditional enrichment strategies often exhibit conceptual inconsistency between their null models and test hypotheses, as they rely on permuting phenotype labels rather than genes. To address these limitations, we introduce cell line-specific gene network enrichment analysis (CellGNEA), a computational strategy designed to identify pathway-level molecular interactions associated with continuous phenotypes in a cell line-specific manner. CellGNEA constructs gene regulatory networks tailored to individual cell lines and assesses molecular interplays within these networks by integrating multiple network-derived metrics, including clustering coefficient, PageRank, and regulatory effects. Associations between gene networks and continuous phenotypes are quantified using a Kolmogorov-Smirnov-based statistic, with statistical significance determined via a gene permutation strategy that aligns the null model with the tested hypothesis. Monte Carlo simulation studies indicate that CellGNEA exhibits robustness and enhanced sensitivity in detecting network enrichment linked to continuous phenotypes. Applications of CellGNEA to drug sensitivity-specific gene networks enable the identification of leukemia-related pathways with molecular interactions significantly associated with therapeutic response. Notably, our analysis revealed that imatinib, quizartinib, and ruxolitinib consistently correlate with network-level remodeling across acute myeloid leukemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, and chronic myeloid leukemia pathways, and identified resistance-associated genes including PTPN11, MS4A1, and BTK. Overall, CellGNEA establishes a systematic, scalable framework for functional network analysis of continuous phenotypes, facilitating comprehensive characterization of cell line-specific biological properties and providing valuable insights for systems biology and precision medicine.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are usually treated as unrelated, yet depressive symptoms occur in a substantial minority of people with ALS and may appear early. These symptoms are heterogeneous and may reflect syndromal MDD, psychological and functional burden, fatigue, apathy, pseudobulbar affect, frontotemporal involvement, sleep or respiratory disturbance, medication effects, or shared affective vulnerability. A proposed pruning-continuum model suggests both disorders may share vulnerability in microglia-mediated synaptic pruning, with ALS amplified by autophagy and protein-quality-control failure and MDD by RNA-processing, stress, and immune dysregulation. We performed an exploratory secondary transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS)/pathway-integration analysis to test whether predefined nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN)-nominated pathways map onto this vulnerability.We integrated precomputed S-PrediXcan outputs for MDD and ALS across available brain-relevant tissues. Ten Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways were predefined from a prior re-analysis of NMN-associated transcriptional programs in aged mouse metabolic tissues. Mouse-derived candidates were represented by human ortholog symbols before the human TWAS screen. The analysis tested nominated pathways rather than the 35-gene NMN-robust list as a standalone set. Cross-tissue screening used Stouffer Z aggregation, tissue-level Wilcoxon testing, competitive permutation testing, percentile bootstrap intervals, pairwise disease statistics, Levene variance tests, concordance measures, and leave-one-out sensitivity analysis. No analysis was treated as confirmatory or evidence of causal mediation.MDD showed the strongest Stouffer-based exploratory signal in the synaptic vesicle cycle pathway, with a meta-across-tissue Stouffer Z of 3.41 and a wide bootstrap 95% confidence interval of -0.46 to 7.40. This signal did not survive competitive permutation testing (p = 0.1222) or Wilcoxon testing (p = 0.1926). The strongest tissue-level result occurred in the amygdala (Z = 4.057; nominal Wilcoxon p = 0.0093), although tissue-level permutation testing was not performed in the multi-gene-set run. ALS showed no significant meta-across-tissue enrichment among the 10 nominated pathways but displayed candidate gene-level signals in autophagy, endosomal, and vesicle-related genes, including TBK1 and C9orf72. Exploratory Levene tests indicated variance heterogeneity in the regulation of the actin cytoskeleton, endocytosis, and neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction; the actin cytoskeleton and endocytosis remained significant in pooled global false discovery rate (FDR) analysis. Fourteen genes were influential in at least two focus pathways, including EGF, KNG1, FGF8, RAC1, PAK1, PAK2, RAF1, MAPK1, and FGFR1.These findings are hypothesis-generating. MDD and ALS may stress overlapping cellular logistics processes while engaging largely different genes. MDD showed the strongest exploratory pathway-level signal in synaptic vesicle biology, whereas ALS showed candidate gene-level coherence in autophagy and endosomal processes without significant meta-pathway enrichment. NMN/NAD+ repletion is not established as a treatment for MDD, ALS, or their comorbidity. These findings generate hypotheses about NAD+-linked cellular stress pathways for future preclinical and clinical studies.Copyright © 2026, Cheung et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42529170 is a review article
Previous studies from us and others suggest that the second heart field (SHF)-derived outflow tract (OFT) wall can undergo a cell fate transition to mesenchymal cells within the intercalated valve swelling (ICVS). However, the trajectory of this transition and its intrinsic regulation remain unknown. Here, we investigate cell fate determination in OFT development and identify specific Nkx2-5 expression in the inferior midline OFT (imOFT) wall and adjacent ICVS. scRNA-seq of E10.5 OFT revealed a transcriptional signature specific to the imICVS within the heterogeneous cell populations. We observed that cells of the imOFT wall ingress while maintaining myocyte properties, whereas the leading cells initiate a transition to a mesenchymal fate. Furthermore, these ingressing cells exhibit 'lily-bulb' collective cell migration. In addition, we found that β-catenin, Shh and FGF8 signaling are associated with imICVS formation. These results identify a novel type of cell ingression and the imICVS appears to spatially coordinate the distribution of OFT main cushion derived from neural crest. This study provides new insights into the role of the SHF in OFT septation and the pathogenesis of congenital heart diseases.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42527183
This retrospective real-world cohort study evaluated the effectiveness and safety of recombinant human growth hormone therapy in Chinese children with Noonan syndrome, with a predefined comparison between short-acting growth hormone and long-acting growth hormone during the first 2 years of treatment. Twenty children with Noonan syndrome were included; 16 were boys, and the median age at recombinant human growth hormone initiation was 5.55 years. The baseline height standard deviation score was-3.01. During the first 2 years, 10 patients received short-acting growth hormone and 10 patients received long-acting growth hormone. The median height standard deviation score increased to-2.20 after 1 year and-1.84 after 2 years, with significant longitudinal improvement over time. The cumulative change in height standard deviation score did not differ significantly between short-acting growth hormone and long-acting growth hormone at year 1 (0.58 vs. 0.71) or year 2 (1.01 vs. 1.30). First-year growth velocity was comparable between groups, whereas the apparent second-year difference was no longer significant after excluding short-acting growth hormone-treated patients who entered puberty and received adjunctive therapy. Among 16 patients with PTPN11 variants, the median cumulative change in height standard deviation score was 1.20 and 56.3% achieved an HtSDS of above-2 standard deviation score at the last follow-up. No diabetes mellitus, malignancy, new cardiovascular events, intracranial hypertension, or slipped capital femoral epiphysis occurred. Insulin-like growth factor-1 standard deviation score elevations were transient. Recombinant human growth hormone therapy was associated with sustained linear growth in children with Noonan syndrome, and short-acting growth hormone and long-acting growth hormone showed broadly comparable short-term efficacy under regular safety monitoring.Thieme. All rights reserved.
Juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML) is a rare RAS/MAPK-driven pediatric myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasm. The phenotype and survival relevance of NRAS/KRAS alterations remain difficult to interpret because of co-mutations, evolving sequencing, incomplete germline confirmation, and post-diagnostic HSCT.We retrospectively reviewed 34 children with JMML and classifiable NRAS and/or KRAS alterations diagnosed between November 2010 and September 2022. Patients were classified as NRAS-only, KRAS-only, or NRAS/KRAS co-mutated. Direct comparisons used single-subtype cases. OS was analyzed in evaluable patients, with HSCT modeled as a time-dependent covariate.The cohort included 20 NRAS-only, 12 KRAS-only, and 2 NRAS/KRAS co-mutated cases. KRAS-only cases had higher monocyte percentage (27.2% vs. 16.7%; p = 0.023) and lymphocyte percentage (48.1% vs. 39.0%; p = 0.018), whereas absolute monocyte count was comparable (4.0 vs. 4.0 × 109/L; p = 0.930). PTPN11 was the most frequent non-RAS co-mutation (7/34) and occurred in both NRAS/KRAS co-mutated cases. Methylation status was available in 11 patients and analyzed descriptively. NRAS/KRAS subtype did not significantly stratify OS (HR for KRAS-only vs. NRAS-only, 0.55; 95% CI, 0.18-1.62; p = 0.276). HbF did not significantly stratify OS, while diagnostic total hemoglobin showed only an exploratory univariable association. Exact HSCT dates were retrieved for all 11 transplanted patients; time-dependent Cox analysis showed a significant association between HSCT and better OS (HR, 0.11; 95% CI, 0.02-0.56; p = 0.007).NRAS/KRAS status defined a limited diagnosis-time phenotype but did not independently stratify survival. JMML survival analyses should integrate co-mutations, germline and testing-era limitations, HbF/hemoglobin risk context, and time-dependent HSCT handling.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510017 is a review article
With the widespread application of microwave technology in communication and medical fields, concerns regarding its biosafety, particularly the effects on the central nervous system, have increased. The brain is considered a sensitive target organ for microwave radiation; however, the molecular mechanisms underlying microwave-induced cognitive impairment remain unclear. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of 4.3 GHz microwave radiation at different power densities on spatial learning and memory in mice, and to identify key molecular changes in the hippocampus associated with cognitive impairment. Mice (male, C57BL/6N) were exposed to 4.3 GHz microwave radiation at power densities of 10 or 30 mW/cm2 for 30 min. Spatial learning and memory abilities were assessed using the Morris water maze (MWM). The hippocampal structure was assessed by HE staining at multiple time points following microwave exposure. Integrated RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) and 4D-data-independent acquisition (4D-DIA) analyses of the hippocampus were performed at 6 h after microwave exposure, and differentially expressed molecules were selected and validated by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) and parallel reaction monitoring (PRM). The 4.3 GHz microwave exposure significantly prolonged escape latency in the MWM, indicating impaired spatial learning or navigation ability. Histological examination revealed transient neuronal damage in the hippocampal CA1 and CA3 regions. Multi-omics analysis and subsequent validation revealed molecular alterations. Following microwave radiation, the expression of synaptic plasticity-related genes Arc and Ebf3 was significantly upregulated. At the protein level, significant downregulation was observed for Protein sidekick-2 and IQGAP1, while WNK3 was significantly upregulated. In summary, 4.3 GHz microwave exposure impaired spatial learning or navigation ability, accompanied by structural damage in the hippocampus and molecular alterations in synaptic plasticity-related pathways. Arc, Ebf3, Protein sidekick-2, WNK3, and IQGAP1 might serve as candidate molecules for understanding and mitigating microwave-induced cognitive deficits.
Phosphate plays essential roles within the human body and levels are tightly controlled through conserved feedback loops. FGF23, a phosphate-regulating hormone produced in the bone, is regulated by the glycosyltransferase, GALNT3, whose expression is sensitive to circulating phosphate levels. GALNT3-mediated glycosylation of FGF23 confers protection from inactivating furin cleavage, thus allowing intact FGF23 to modulate phosphate reabsorption in the kidneys. Mutations in either FGF23 or GALNT3 are responsible for diseases of phosphate regulation, which can lead to growth defects, skeletal malformations, soft-tissue calcification, kidney failure, and death. However, the specific effects of many of these mutations remain poorly understood and effective treatments are lacking. Here, we employ an in vivo system that recapitulates the FGF23/GALNT3 axis to demonstrate the functional consequences of 11 GALNT3 patient mutations. We identify certain GALNT3 mutations that affect stability yet retain catalytic activity and thus may be targets for therapeutic approaches that enhance folding/stability. We present evidence that one previously reported pathogenic mutation is not pathogenic. We also demonstrate that two additional members of the GALNT family can glycosylate FGF23 and protect it from furin cleavage in cells. Finally, we examine three patient-derived FGF23 mutations and show they have unique effects on stability or secretion. This study provides detailed mechanistic information regarding patient mutations in both GALNT3 and FGF23 that result in disease and a functional platform for developing new approaches to treat diseases of phosphate dysregulation.
Corticosteroids are among the most highly prescribed drugs. Chronic treatment with corticosteroids causes osteopenia, as well as growth failure in children. Our goal was to identify serum biomarkers of prednisone-related perturbations of bone and/or cartilage metabolism associated with growth failure in children. We utilized longitudinal serum samples from a double-blind, placebo- and prednisone-controlled trial of vamorolone in 4 to < 7 years children with Duchenne muscular dystrophy assayed by proteomic methods. Vamorolone is a recently approved bone-sparing corticosteroid that has been shown to have similar efficacy as prednisone but does not cause growth failure. The study included a 24-week Period 1 (placebo, prednisone [0.75 mg/kg/day], vamorolone [6 mg/kg/day]), and a 24-week Period 2 where placebo and vamorolone groups crossed over to vamorolone. Clinical laboratory measures of ALP, osteocalcin, P1NP, and CTX1 showed significant reductions with prednisone, but were unchanged by vamorolone treatment or placebo. Proteomics studies of serum proteins reduced by prednisone, but not vamorolone or placebo, identified 10 proteins where mutations in the corresponding genes are known to cause genetic disorders of cartilage and/or bone (collagens [COL2A1, Chondrocalcin, COL6A1, COL9A1, COL10A1, COL11A2], aggrecan core protein [ACAN], biglycan [BGN], osteopetrosis-associated transmembrane protein 1 [OSTM1], and noggin [NOG]). On transitioning from prednisone to vamorolone, all 10 biomarkers returned to baseline levels. Non-human (animal) studies have shown that traditional corticosteroids cause apoptosis of terminal hypertrophic chondrocytes associated with growth failure. Our clinical trial studies suggest that the 10 novel, corticosteroid-related biomarkers likely reflect the induction of apoptosis in terminal hypertrophic chondrocytes and osteoblasts by traditional corticosteroids. Vamorolone may spare chondrocytes and osteoblasts from this apoptosis, consistent with maintenance of normal growth in vamorolone-treated children.Trial registration The clinical trial registration (clinicaltrials.gov) is NCT03439670 ( https://www.clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03439670 ).© 2026. The Author(s).
Photoreceptors are retinal neurons whose subtype-specific opsin expression and mosaic organization enable parallel encoding of spectral and spatial visual information. Yet, the transcriptional mechanisms establishing and maintaining subtype identity remain poorly understood. We investigated the role of the T-box transcription factors tbx2a and tbx2b in zebrafish photoreceptor development and found evidence for paralog subfunctionalization across photoreceptor lineages. Tbx2b is required for UV-cone generation and prevents fate switching toward rods, while Tbx2a is constrained to UV-cone generation without involving rods. These factors also maintain cone identity by repressing inappropriate M-cone fate. Despite major changes in photoreceptor composition, tbx2 mutants retain luminance- and motion-driven vision, whereas prey capture is abolished only in tbx2b mutants and not tbx2a mutants. Our findings identify the tbx2 paralogs as key regulators of cone-subtype generation and maintenance and reveal how developmental programs diversify photoreceptor fate to appropriately support visually-guided behaviors important for survival.
Non-syndromic cleft palate only (NSCPO) is a distinct clinical and etiological entity within the spectrum of orofacial clefts. While genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified numerous risk loci for nonsyndromic cleft lip with or without cleft palate (NSCL/P), the genetic architecture of NSCPO remains less understood, particularly in the Japanese population. This study aimed to investigate the association of three candidate genes, VAX1, MAFB, and NOG, with NSCPO risk. A case-control study was carried out involving 65 Japanese NSCPO patients and 119 ethnically matched healthy controls. Three single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), rs7078160 (VAX1), rs13041247 (MAFB), and rs227731 (NOG), were selected based on previous GWAS and minor allele frequency. Statistical associations were evaluated using chi-squared or Fisher's exact tests. The VAX1 rs7078160 polymorphism showed a significant association with NSCPO under a recessive model (OR = 2.10, 95% CI = 1.05-4.22, p = 0.034), with the AA genotype showing a higher risk. No significant associations were found for MAFB rs13041247 or NOG rs227731 (p > 0.05). Our findings identify VAX1 rs7078160 as a potential risk factor for NSCPO in the Japanese population. These results show the need for larger studies to further explain the molecular pathways of NSCPO.© 2026 Japanese Teratology Society.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a leading cause of vision loss, yet its systemic proteomic mediators remain largely elusive. This study aimed to identify causal plasma proteins, map their cell-type-specific localization in the retina, and experimentally validate their expression under disease-relevant stress. We conducted a proteome-wide association study (PWAS) integrating UK Biobank plasma pQTL data (N = 53,022) with DR GWAS summary statistics. Causal relationships were inferred utilizing summary-data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR) and Bayesian colocalization. Prioritized candidates were mapped to the Human and Mouse Retina Cell Atlases via single-nucleus RNA sequencing (snRNA-seq). Finally, to substantiate the computational findings, in vitro validation of COL4A1 was performed in ARPE-19 cells cultured under hyperglycemic conditions utilizing quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) and transcriptomic dataset re-analysis. The PWAS identified 26 proteins significantly associated with DR. Subsequent causal inference prioritized 12 high-confidence candidates, including GSTT2B, COL4A1, PAM, and GALNT3. Notably, GSTT2B emerged as a Tier-1 protective causal protein (Z = -3.609; PSMR = 1.22 × 10-4). snRNA-seq mapping revealed that GSTT2B is robustly expressed in Müller glia and the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE), whereas COL4A1 is prominently enriched in vascular compartments. These specific expression signatures exhibited partial conservation across species with notable cell-type specific variations. Crucially, in vitro validation confirmed that COL4A1 mRNA expression is significantly upregulated under high-glucose stress. Furthermore, druggability analysis highlighted actionable targets, identifying GSTT2B as a highly probable causal mediator and COL4A1 as a prioritized candidate for structural intervention. This study provides robust genetic, single-cell, and experimental evidence implicating specific plasma proteins in DR pathogenesis. The identification of GSTT2B-mediated protective pathways and the hyperglycemia-induced upregulation of COL4A1 offer a high-resolution molecular atlas to guide drug repositioning and precision therapeutic strategies.
Indole-3-propionic acid (IPA) is documented to improve the effectiveness of tumor immunotherapy via regulating anti-tumor immunity. However, the impacts of IPA in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients undergoing sintilimab combined with bevacizumab (SCB) treatment remain unknown. This study investigated the effects and underlying mechanisms of IPA in SCB-treated HCC. Serum, tumor tissue, fecal and lymph node tissue samples were collected from HCC patients with or without a response to SCB therapy. Humanized orthotopic and subcutaneous HCC NOG mouse models were established. IPA-treated mouse dendritic cells (DCs) were co-cultured with mouse CD8+ T-cells, which were subsequently co-cultured with Hepa1-6 cells. IPA levels were elevated in the serum, tumor tissues, and feces of responders, and serum IPA levels were positively correlated with the proportion of IFN-γ+CD8+ T cells in tumor tissues as well asac-H3K27 and IL-12A levels in lymph node DCs. IPA amplified the suppressive impact of SCB on tumor growth in HCC mice. Moreover, IPA increased ac-H3K27 and IL-12A levels in DCs and upregulated effector CD8+ T-cell immunity in HCC mice. Administration of a CD8-neutralizing antibody and injection of shIL-12A-transfected DCs weakened IPA-mediated inhibition of HCC in vivo. Furthermore, the ac-H3K27 inhibitor A-485 suppressed IL-12A expression and effector CD8+ T-cell immunity induced by IPA, thereby promoting the proliferation, invasion, and migration of Hepa1-6 cells in vitro. These findings demonstrate that IPA enhances the effect of SCB-treated HCC by upregulating H3K27 acetylation to promote IL-12A expression in DCs, thereby potentiating CD8+ T-cell immunity, which provides a basis for its potential use as a clinical adjuvant therapy.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
Gastric cancer (GC) is a prevalent malignancy worldwide with high morbidity and mortality. Its insidious onset and lack of sensitive early biomarkers impede routine screening, so most patients present advanced or metastatic disease at first diagnosis, leading to poor prognosis and scarce curative options. Surgery, chemotherapy and targeted therapy serve as standard GC treatments, however their efficacy is restricted by metastasis, adverse reactions and drug resistance, which drives the rapid development of immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI)-based immunotherapy. Although monoclonal antibodies targeting programmed cell death protein 1/programmed cell death 1 ligand 1 (PD-1/PD-L1) resulted in significant survival benefits for GC patients, some patients exhibited an ineffective response. Our previous study has shown that Weitiao No. 3 (WD-3) enhanced the efficacy of anti-PD-1 immunotherapy by regulating intestinal flora in gastric cancer (GC) mice, in this study, huPBMC-NOG-dKO mice and MGC803 cells were used for in vivo and in vitro functional validation to explore the regulatory mechanism of WD-3 in GC immunotherapy. 16 S rRNA sequencing analysis of mouse fecal samples demonstrated that WD-3 significantly enriched the intestinal abundance of Lachnospiraceae and Ruminococcaceae in GC model mice. Targeted serum metabolomics further verified that WD-3 markedly elevated serum isobutyric acid level in GC mice. Combined with HE staining and tumor growth monitoring, both the intestinal flora mixture consisting of Lachnospiraceae and Ruminococcaceae and isobutyric acid prominently enhanced the anti-tumor efficacy of PD-L1 inhibitors in GC mice. Mechanistically, RNA sequencing and qRT-PCR assays identified ACOX2 as the most significantly up-regulated gene in isobutyric acid-treated MGC803 cells. Functional experiments using CCK-8 assay and flow cytometry revealed that isobutyric acid inhibited the viability and induced apoptosis of MGC803 cells, and such phenotypic changes were effectively rescued by ACOX2 knockdown. Furthermore, results from the CytoTox 96 cytotoxicity assay and ELISA revealed that combined treatment with isobutyric acid and PD-L1 inhibitor elevated the levels of LDH, IL-2, TNF-α, IFN-γ, Perforin 1 and GzmB, while suppressing IL-8, PD-1 and TIM-3 expression in CD8⁺ T cells co-cultured with MGC803 cells. Notably, all these regulatory effects were abrogated when MGC803 cells were transfected with si-ACOX2. These results suggested that WD-3 modulated intestinal flora to elevate isobutyric acid level, thereby enhancing the inhibitory effect of PD-L1 inhibitor on tumor growth and boosting the anti-tumor activity of CD8⁺ T cells by up-regulating ACOX2 expression in GC. These findings may provide novel targets for improving anti-PD-L1 therapy against GC.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s13205-026-04974-x.© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory autoimmune skin disease for which no standardised and reliable molecular biomarkers of disease course or activity are currently available. Here, we aimed to identify serum biomarkers of psoriasis. Serum samples from 40 patients with psoriasis and 40 healthy volunteers were analysed using ELISA and Proximity Extension Assay proteomics. ELISA revealed significantly increased serum levels of AGO2 and APOA1 in psoriatic patients versus controls, with a strong association between APOA1 and psoriasis (OR = 20.72, 95% CI of 4.57-93.87, p = 0.000137). Targeted serum proteomics additionally identified 35 differentially expressed proteins, including well-known psoriasis drivers (e.g., top upregulated IL17A and SERPINB4). The most downregulated was adrenomedullin (ADM, FC = -10.12). For 14 altered proteins, no previous direct associations with psoriasis were reported. Among them, DEFB103A_DEFB103B and DSG3 showed the best discrimination between psoriasis and control samples, while SERPINB4 correlated with psoriasis severity. APOA1, DEFB103A_DEFB103B, and DSG3 emerge as novel candidate circulating psoriasis biomarkers, and SERPINB4 as a biomarker of psoriasis severity. The functional role of DSG3 and other newly identified proteins (ACRV1, HAO1, ADH4, GPD1, GFER, PTGES2, DSG3, AFAP1L1, GALNT3, RASGRP2, MAP2K6, LXN, NBEAL2, and VPS54) in psoriasis requires further studies.
Gastric cancer (GC) ranks as the fifth most prevalent malignancy globally. Emerging evidence implicates gut microbiome as a key modulator of anti-tumor immunity and immunotherapy response. Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) presents a promising yet underexplored avenue for microbiome modulation.16S rDNA sequencing of fecal samples was used to detect changes of gut microbiota in advanced GC patients. GC models were established in huPBMC-NOG-dKO mice after fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) to investigate the potential synergy between Number 3 Prescription (WD-3) and anti-PD-L1 monoclonal antibody (mAb) in treatment of non-responders.In this study, WD-3 combined with αPD-L1 showed additive benefit after the FMT of non-responders in the humanized mouse model model. WD-3 combination therapy correlated with reduced proportion of Treg cell infiltration in tumors. WD-3 combination was also associated with increased species richness and improved gut microbiota community structure compared to αPD-L1 alone, with increased relative abundances of Enterobacteriaceae and Lachnospiraceae.Our data provide correlative evidence that WD-3 supplementation combined with αPD-L1 treatment may attenuate GC progress in the FMT mouse model, indicating association with the modulation of gut microbiota. These findings aim to provide treatment strategies for the clinical treatment of advanced GC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
Tumor masses often exhibit heterogeneity, including escape variant clones that lack antigen-presenting machinery and/or tumor antigens, which poses a major challenge to immunotherapy. Ferroptosis, a form of regulated cell death driven by iron-dependent lipid peroxidation, has been shown to effectively induce cell death in various tumor cells. Recent studies have reported that IFN-γ suppresses the expression of System Xc-, thereby enhancing the induction of ferroptosis. Based on this, we hypothesized that combining immunotherapy with ferroptosis inducers could enhance antitumor effects against both antigen-positive and antigen-negative tumor cells. We found that combining RSL3, a ferroptosis inducer, with MART-1-specific TCR-T cells eradicates a heterogeneous tumor model consisting of human melanoma cells and their β2 microglobulin knockout counterparts. In NOG mice, this combination therapy demonstrates a significant antitumor effect against tumors with heterogeneity. These findings suggest that integrating ferroptosis inducers with immunotherapy could overcome the limitations imposed by escape variant tumor clones, offering a promising strategy for cancer treatment.
Myocardial ischemia (MI) causes diverse pathological injuries, and pharmacological intervention remains a key therapeutic approach. Tanshinone IIA (Tan IIA), a principal active compound derived from the traditional Chinese medicine Danshen, is clinically used in the form of sodium tanshinone IIA sulfonate for the treatment of ischemic heart disease. However, its precise molecular mechanisms and targets are not fully understood.This study aimed to explore the targets and mechanisms of Tan IIA against MI in vitro and in vivo.In this study, mouse models of MI induced by left anterior descending artery ligation and isoproterenol were established to validate the therapeutic effects of Tan IIA on MI. We then reanalyzed the GSE1145 dataset of human cardiac tissues and integrated network pharmacology, molecular docking, and phosphoproteomics to screen potential target proteins of Tan IIA. Subsequently, the affinity of Tan IIA for its target was validated using gene knockdown models and multiple techniques, including cellular thermal shift assay, drug affinity responsive target stability assay, biolayer interferometry, and molecular dynamics simulations.Fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (FGFR1) was identified as a novel target of Tan IIA, with binding assays showing a specific interaction and a dissociation constant of 13.8 μM. Site-directed mutagenesis further demonstrated that Tan IIA binds directly to the Gln284 residue of FGFR1 and promotes trans-autophosphorylation at Y653/Y654. Mechanistically, Tan IIA activates the downstream FRS2-MAPK pathway to inhibit autophagy, whereas in vitro enzyme assays indicate that it also limits the catalytic turnover of kinase domains. This unique modulatory profile defines Tan IIA as an extracellular domain-directed allosteric modulator that dissociates receptor phosphorylation from steady-state enzymatic flux to effectively provide cardioprotection.This study identifies FGFR1 as a direct molecular target of Tan IIA, establishing a target-specific mechanism underlying its cardioprotective effects and providing a mechanistic basis for the development of precision therapeutic strategies for MI.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
AR pathway-independent prostate cancer (ARIPC), particularly neuroendocrine prostate cancer (NEPC), represents one of the most lethal states of metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. However, how fatty acid synthesis (FAS) is organized in ARIPC and whether distinct lipogenic states shape neuroendocrine lineage transdifferentiation remain unclear. By integrating single-cell and bulk transcriptomic analyses of mCRPC cohorts, we identify NEPC as a fatty-acid-synthesis-low state associated with poor survival. Within this context, fatty acid synthase (FASN) emerges as a key indicator and functional contributor to lipogenic activity. FASN depletion suppresses lipogenesis while increasing NEPC-associated programs, migration, and metastatic colonization. We further identify FGFRL1 as the FGF family member most consistently associated with fatty acid synthesis activity in ARIPC. FGFRL1 depletion reduces FASN expression and relative free fatty-acid content, while targeted GC-MS supports broader fatty-acid remodeling and fluorescent uptake assays show increased exogenous fatty-acid uptake. FASN restoration partially restores relative free fatty-acid content and attenuates NEPC-associated and migratory phenotypes. Directional perturbation, rescue, AKT phosphorylation, and co-immunoprecipitation analyses further support the functional FGFRL1-FASN relationship. ONECUT2 is prioritized as a candidate downstream transcriptional regulator whose expression correlates with the neuroendocrine program. Together, these findings support an FGFRL1-FASN metabolic axis that regulates neuroendocrine lineage transdifferentiation and metastatic progression in ARIPC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Londin et al. discovered a novel group of miRNAs, referred to as LmiRNAs, whose properties had been studied little for unknown reasons. In this study, we examine fully complementary interactions between LmiRNAs and mRNAs of human genes. Using the MirTarget program, we identified a significant number of target genes showing unique interaction with LmiRNAs. Among the 3707 LmiRNAs, fully complementary binding sites (BSs) were found in the 5'UTR of 75 target genes, with their interactions exhibiting high free energy. Fully complementary LmiRNA binding sites were located within the CDS of 81 target genes, while only seven LmiRNAs were found to bind to the 3'UTR of target genes. The KIFC3, PHF15, RPL15, and SNX11 genes were found to encode both LmiRNA-5p and LmiRNA-3p, which actively bind to their respective mRNAs. While the mRNA of most genes was targeted by only a single LmiRNA, the BMP8B, FGFRL1, and SDC3 genes included mRNAs bound by the specific pair ID00121.5p and ID02992.5p. These results expand our understanding of LmiRNAs and support their potential as diagnostic and therapeutic agents for various diseases.
Sarcomas with Murine Double Minute 2 (MDM2) amplification are considered potential candidates for MDM2-targeted therapy. However, the limited efficacy of MDM2 inhibitor monotherapy suggests that additional biological factors may influence tumor behavior and prognosis. This study investigated the relationship between MDM2 expression and the Complexity Index in SARComas (CINSARC) transcriptomic signature, a gene expression signature that reflects cell division and chromosomal instability in soft tissue sarcomas. In the public GSE21050 dataset comprising 310 soft tissue sarcomas, the MDM2-low/CINSARC-low subgroup showed the most favorable metastasis-free survival, whereas the MDM2-high/CINSARC-low subgroup had an unfavorable metastasis-free survival comparable to that of the MDM2-high/CINSARC-high group. Among the representative genes in the 12q13-15 region, fibroblast growth factor receptor substrate 2 (FRS2) showed a strong positive correlation with MDM2 expression, but no significant correlation with CINSARC, suggesting an association independent of proliferative capacity. These findings suggest that proliferation-based risk assessment alone may underestimate the metastatic risk of a subset of MDM2-high sarcomas, and FRS2 may present a biologically relevant marker of aggressive behavior independent of tumor proliferation.
Antiangiogenic immunotherapy represents a promising cancer treatment strategy. However, the efficacy of this combination approach is hindered by inadequate vascular normalization. While the fundamental role of canonical kinase-centric VEGFR-ERK signaling in angiogenesis is appreciated, the kinase-centric model overlooks non-kinase components of the pathway, such as adaptors, scaffolds, and other non-kinase interacting proteins, that could impact response to antiangiogenic therapy. Here, employing ERK kinase translocation reporter and CRISPRa screening, we revealed that the non-kinase SHC-SHCBP1 complex governed VEGFR2-ERK activity and was a dependency for aberrant tumor angiogenesis. Genetic knockout of Shcbp1 in mice sensitized tumors to VEGFR2 inhibition, preventing excessive angiogenesis, normalizing tumor vasculature, and reprogramming the immunosuppressive microenvironment to enhance immunotherapy efficacy. Mechanistically, ERK directly formed a complex with SHC and SHCBP1. Upon VEGF stimulation, active VEGFR2 recruited SHC to liberate the SHCBP1-ERK complex. SHCBP1 then triggered ERK hyperactivation by promoting ERK phosphorylation and NLS-importin-dependent nuclear shuttling, creating a feedforward loop to exacerbate pathological angiogenesis. Clinically, SHCBP1 overexpression negatively correlated with vascular normalization and antiangiogenic immunotherapy response in patients. High-throughput screening led to the development of MS1943, an inhibitor blocking SHCBP1-ERK nuclear transport. Combined with the VEGFR2 inhibitor rivoceranib and anti-PD1, MS1943 demonstrated antitumor activity against immunotherapy-resistant preclinical models, with favorable tolerance. These findings define a non-kinase-governed VEGFR2-ERK signaling pathway as a targetable dependency for tumor angiogenesis, offering the foundation for alternative antiangiogenic immunotherapy strategies.
FGFR4 signaling is an essential driver in hepatocellular carcinoma. However, traditional screening is often time-consuming, highlighting a need for efficient strategies to identify covalent chemotypes and accelerate FGFR4 drug discovery.We established an integrated AI-driven virtual screening framework to discover FGFR4 covalent inhibitors. The theoretical predictions were evaluated through a biochemical pipeline, encompassing in vitro FGFR4 kinase assays, immunoblotting of intracellular signaling cascades, and bottom-up LC-MS/MS peptide mapping.Biological validation of the computational predictions identified five distinct chemical scaffolds (hits 1, 2, 5, 7, and 8) exhibiting antiproliferative activity. The two most active candidates, hit 1 and hit 2, were selected for further mechanistic profiling. These compounds demonstrated dose-dependent FGFR4 kinase inhibition with IC50 values of 1.06 μM and 3.57 μM, respectively. Cellular assays revealed that both compounds attenuate FGFR4 autophosphorylation and its downstream FRS2/ERK1/2 signaling cascade without inducing non-specific protein degradation. Furthermore, bottom-up LC-MS/MS peptide mapping provided direct structural evidence that hit 1 and hit 2 engage the target cysteine residue via a Michael addition mechanism.Our AI-guided computational workflow identified multiple covalent FGFR4 inhibitors with measurable biological activity. Hit 1 and hit 2 represent structurally characterized covalent scaffolds. This study provides chemical starting points for targeted HCC therapy and demonstrates the integration of theoretical prediction and experimental validation in covalent drug discovery.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study aimed to investigate the role of Src homology collagen-binding protein 1 (SHCBP1) in the progression and cisplatin resistance of laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma (LSCC), and to elucidate the underlying regulatory mechanism. LSCC cell lines were used to assess SHCBP1 expression by western blotting and quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). SHCBP1 knockdown was achieved by siRNA transfection, and its effects on cell proliferation, migration, and cisplatin sensitivity were evaluated through cell viability assays, wound healing assays, and flow cytometry. The transcriptional regulation of SHCBP1 by POU class 2 homeobox 1 (POU2F1) was investigated using dual-luciferase reporter assays and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) analysis. In vivo, tumor xenograft models were established to determine the impact of SHCBP1 knockdown on tumor growth and cisplatin responsiveness. SHCBP1 was highly expressed in LSCC cells, and its knockdown significantly inhibited LSCC cell proliferation and migration. Moreover, SHCBP1 silencing enhanced the sensitivity of LSCC cells to cisplatin treatment. Mechanistically, POU2F1 was shown to activate SHCBP1 transcription in LSCC cells. In vivo experiments further confirmed that SHCBP1 knockdown suppressed tumor growth and metastasis and increased cisplatin sensitivity. Overall, SHCBP1 contributes to LSCC cisplatin resistance and progression by promoting POU2F1-mediated transcriptional activation.©The Author(s) 2026. Open Access. This article is licensed under a Creative Commons CC-BY International License.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42458557
Investigating the genetic attributes of indigenous goat breeds is crucial for their conservation and breeding. The Matou goat, a valued native breed of Southern China, is characterized by high meat quality and reproductive efficiency, representing an important genetic resource for livestock production. Its genetic basis underlying productive traits remains unclear at the whole-genome level. Therefore, this study aimed to elucidate its genomic diversity and selection signatures with whole-genome sequencing (WGS), in order to provide a basis for its future conservation and breeding. Population structure analyses, including principal component analysis, phylogenetic tree construction, and admixture analysis, revealed that the 128 sampled individuals could be divided into two subgroups. One subgroup exhibited greater genetic diversity, as reflected by higher heterozygosity and lower inbreeding coefficients, along with a higher frequency of private alleles indicative of a more closed breeding history. The slower linkage disequilibrium decay observed in this subgroup suggests it has undergone stronger selection. By integrating Fst, XP‑CLR, and XP‑EHH analyses, we identified 215 genes within 306 candidate regions under selection. Several of these genes (ARHGAP31, CHURC1, ITGA11, and GFOD1) harbor variants that overlap with QTLs and are associated with production traits in livestock. These findings provide a basis for conservation and breeding of the Matou goat.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Society of Animal Science.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a highly lethal malignancy with a dismal prognosis, characterized by an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment and rapid development of chemoresistance. The present study investigated the histamine receptor H1 (HRH1), a G protein-coupled receptor, and its functional interplay with the transcriptional coactivator YAP1, a known driver of PDAC progression. Through integrated multi-omics analysis of data from TCGA, ICGC and GEO cohorts, the present study found that HRH1 was consistently overexpressed in PDAC, and its expression correlated with poor prognosis. Mendelian randomization analysis further suggested a causal relationship between the use of fexofenadine, an HRH1 antagonist, and a reduced risk of PDAC. Mechanistically, the present study identified a positive feedback loop in which HRH1 stabilizes and activates YAP1 signaling, while YAP1 knockdown downregulates HRH1 transcription, potentially through direct binding to the HRH1 promoter region. The present study constructed a prognostic model based on the HRH1-YAP1 axis by integrating a panel of 101 machine learning algorithms. The model, which includes HRH1, YAP1, ECT2, ITGB5, SHCBP1, MAML2, YWHAZ and ITGA2, effectively stratified patients into groups with differential risk. Patients in the high-risk group exhibited characteristics associated with worse outcomes, including KRAS mutations, chemoresistance, an immunosuppressive microenvironment and reduced responsiveness to immunotherapy. The present study establishes HRH1 as a novel therapeutic target in PDAC and proposes the repurposing of fexofenadine as a promising strategy to disrupt the oncogenic HRH1-YAP1 feedback loop.Copyright: © 2026 Chen and Wen.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) triggers complex secondary pathologies that lack effective treatments. While mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) transplantation is promising, it is severely limited by poor cell retention and survival. To address these challenges, we engineered a combinatorial platform comprising an injectable, self-healing supramolecular gelatin hydrogel (iGel) loaded with CRISPR-SAM-engineered "Super MSCs" (SPMSCs). These cells were programmed to endogenously multiplex the activation of neuroprotective factors IL-10 and FGF21. Our results demonstrate that the biomimetic iGel niche enhances SPMSC viability and sustained factor secretion compared to 2D cultures. In a murine TBI model, iGel-encapsulated SPMSCs exerted potent immunomodulatory effects, suppressing microglial inflammation and neuronal apoptosis while restoring blood-brain barrier integrity. Furthermore, the treatment promoted angiogenesis and endogenous neurogenesis. Consequently, treated mice exhibited reduced cerebral edema and lesion volume, alongside significant improvements in sensorimotor function and spatial memory. This study establishes a versatile, gene-editing-empowered biomaterial platform that overcomes critical bottlenecks in cell therapy for central nervous system injuries.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
X-linked hypophosphatemia (XLH) is a rare genetic disorder caused by PHEX mutations, leading to hypophosphatemia and impaired bone mineralization. Burosumab, a monoclonal antibody targeting FGF23, improves phosphate levels and bone health. Although burosumab improves musculoskeletal pain, it remains unclear whether this benefit results solely from restoration of phosphate homeostasis or also involves immunomodulatory mechanisms. Given the role of FGF23 in modulating macrophage function and the involvement of TRPV1 - expressed by macrophages - in pain transmission, we investigated the effects of burosumab on macrophage polarisation and TRPV1 expression in children with XLH.Macrophages were isolated from untreated XLH patients (n=4), burosumab-treated XLH patients (n=8), and healthy donors (n=5). Western blot was used to assess M1 (CCR7, CD86, iNOS) and M2 (CD206, p-STAT6) markers, as well as TRPV1 expression. To evaluate burosumab's direct effects, macrophages from healthy donors were stimulated with LPS and treated with 1.5 or 3 μg/mL burosumab, followed by the same analyses.Untreated XLH macrophages predominantly exhibited an M1 phenotype with higher TRPV1 protein levels compared to healthy controls. In contrast, macrophages from burosumab-treated patients showed a tendency to acquire an M2-like phenotype and reduced TRPV1 expression. Similar effects were observed in vitro, with LPS-stimulated healthy macrophages shifting toward the M2 phenotype and showing decreased TRPV1 after burosumab exposure.In untreated XLH patients, macrophages exhibit a pro-inflammatory M1 phenotype with upregulated TRPV1 expression. Burosumab reverses this profile, driving M2 polarization and reducing TRPV1 levels, thereby suggesting that it exerts therapeutic effects beyond phosphate homeostasis through immunomodulation.X-linked hypophosphatemia (XLH) causes rickets and chronic pain. We found that immune cells from untreated patients show a pro-inflammatory profile. Treatment with burosumab shifted these immune cells toward an anti-inflammatory state and reduced the expression of TRPV1, a molecule involved in neuroimmune signaling, suggesting that burosumab may exert biological effects beyond bone health.© the author(s).
To evaluate the clinical effectiveness of adjunctive Manuka honey oral rinse following nonsurgical periodontal therapy (NSPT) in hemodialysis patients with periodontitis, and to explore associated changes in periodontal clinical parameters (clinical attachment level [CAL], probing depth [PD], bleeding on probing [BOP], and plaque index [PI]), selected inflammatory biomarkers (gingival crevicular fluid fibroblast growth factor-23 [FGF23] and serum C-reactive protein [CRP]), and oral health-related quality of life (OHIP-14).In this randomized, blinded, controlled clinical trial, 140 hemodialysis patients with Stage III periodontitis were allocated to NSPT with Manuka honey oral rinse (n = 70) or NSPT with saline rinse (n = 70). CAL was the primary outcome. Secondary outcomes included PD, BOP, PI, gingival crevicular fluid FGF23, serum CRP, and OHIP-14. Periodontal parameters were assessed at baseline, 3, and 6 months. Gingival crevicular fluid and venous blood samples were collected with sterile paper strips and before the hemodialysis session, respectively. The periodontal parameters were recorded at baseline, 3, and 6 months, whereas the biomarkers and OHIP-14 were recorded at baseline and 6 months.Both groups showed significant intragroup improvements in periodontal parameters over time (P < .001). At 6 months, the Manuka group demonstrated significantly greater improvements compared with controls in CAL mean difference = -0.5 mm (95% CI: -0.86 to -0.14; P = .008), PD (P = .013), and BOP (P = .005), while plaque index did not differ significantly between groups (P > .05). In addition, the Manuka group showed a greater reduction in GCF FGF23 and serum CRP levels (P ≤ .001). Improvements in OHIP-14 scores were also significantly greater in the Manuka group (P = .003).Adjunctive use of Manuka honey oral rinse with NSPT was associated with modest additional improvements in periodontal clinical outcomes and reductions in inflammatory biomarkers in hemodialysis patients. These findings suggest a potential supportive role for Manuka honey as an adjunctive periodontal therapy in medically compromised populations; however, the observed biomarker changes should be interpreted with caution, as systemic clinical outcomes were not assessed.The study was registered at Clinical Trials.gov on December 9, 2024 with the number (NCT06726876).Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Inflammation causes bone loss by dysregulating the differentiation and functions of osteoclasts, osteoblasts, and osteocytes. This process can be modeled by the expression of constitutively activated IKK2 (IKK2ca), a strategy that we leveraged to investigate the mechanisms through which inflammation negatively affects cells of the osteoblast/osteocyte lineage. We found that mice expressing IKK2ca in osteoblasts exhibit significant bone loss. Mechanistically, IKK2ca downregulates the expression of osteoblast genes while inducing the differentiation of bone-forming osteoblasts into catabolic osteocytes like cells, expressing high levels of Podoplanin, Fgf23, Dkk1 and Sclerostin. We term these atypical inflammatory osteocyte-like cells (aiOCy-L cells) as they highly express inflammatory and senescence markers and promote osteoclast differentiation as well. Additional data show that inflammation induces abnormal differentiation of OB into aiOCy-L cells through upregulating mTOR and glycolysis. In summary, we uncovered a mechanism by which inflammation alters osteoblast differentiation and fate decision via the IKK2/mTOR/glycolysis axis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Osteoarthritis (OA), a global leading cause of chronic pain and disability, lacks disease-modifying osteoarthritis drugs (DMOADs) targeting its core pathogenesis. scRNA-seq of human OA cartilage showed marked depletion of a high-arginine-metabolism chondrocyte subpopulation driving cartilage degeneration, with its key upstream regulator FGF21, significantly downregulated in OA cartilage. Mechanistically, FGF21 rescues IL-1β-induced chondrocyte dysfunction via ASS1/ASL -mediated arginine biosynthesis, an effect abrogated by ASS1 knockdown, confirming the FGF21-arginine pathway's role and FGF21 as a therapeutic target. Guided by this mechanism, we engineered a hydrogel-based bioinspired metabo-reprogramming niche remodeling system (MetaRemod) to achieve precise and efficient delivery of FGF21 to OA chondrocytes. In a mouse OA model, MetaRemod effectively halted OA progression by sustaining targeted delivery of bioactive FGF21, restoring chondrocyte arginine metabolism, preserving cartilage structure and joint space, restoring subchondral bone integrity, and mitigating synovitis. Critically, scRNA-seq of treated cartilage confirmed the restoration of the depleted "high-arginine-metabolism" chondrocyte subpopulation, directly validating that MetaRemod reverses OA's core metabolic defect. This study establishes the FGF21-arginine metabolic axis as a key therapeutic target for OA and validates MetaRemod as a promising strategy that synergizes targeted FGF21 delivery and metabolic reprogramming, laying a solid foundation for the clinical translation of metabolic reprogramming-based DMOADs.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Chronic wound healing disorders remain a significant clinical challenge, largely due to the limited effectiveness of conventional therapeutic strategies. Emerging evidence suggests that engineered exosomes represent a promising cell-free therapeutic approach. This study aimed to elucidate the mechanisms by which fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21)-modified adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cell (ADSC) exosomes promote wound healing.ADSCs overexpressing FGF21 were established using genetic engineering, and FGF21-enriched exosomes (Exo@FGF21) were isolated and characterized using transmission electron microscopy and nanoparticle tracking analysis. The biological effects of Exo@FGF21 on human skin fibroblasts (HSFs) were assessed through proliferation, migration, invasion, and apoptosis assays. Glycolytic activity, glucose consumption, lactate production, ATP levels, and hydroxyproline content were evaluated to investigate metabolic changes. Mechanistic studies involved pharmacological inhibition of AMPK and knockdown of PFKFB3. Therapeutic efficacy was further examined in a mouse full-thickness skin defect model.Exo@FGF21 exhibited typical exosomal morphology with diameters ranging from 80 to 150 nm and expressed canonical exosomal markers CD9 and CD63. In vitro, Exo@FGF21 significantly enhanced fibroblast proliferation, migration, and invasion, promoted collagen synthesis-related gene expression (COL1A1, COL3A1, FN1), and reduced apoptosis. Mechanistically, Exo@FGF21 activated AMPK, suppressed mTOR signaling, and upregulated PFKFB3 expression. Both AMPK inhibition and PFKFB3 knockdown markedly attenuated these pro-repair effects. Metabolic analyses demonstrated enhanced glycolysis, increased glucose utilization, elevated lactate production, and augmented ATP and hydroxyproline levels, indicating glycolytic metabolic reprogramming. In vivo, Exo@FGF21 accelerated wound closure, promoted epidermal regeneration, enhanced collagen deposition, and activated the AMPK/mTOR/PFKFB3 pathway.FGF21-modified ADSC-derived exosomes promote wound healing by inducing fibroblast glycolytic metabolic reprogramming via the AMPK/mTOR/PFKFB3 signaling axis. These findings provide novel mechanistic insights and support the therapeutic potential of engineered exosome-based strategies for chronic wound repair.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Functional recovery after total joint arthroplasty (TJA) is multifactorial. This study aimed to characterize the one-year recovery trajectory in elderly patients undergoing total hip arthroplasty (THA) or total knee arthroplasty (TKA) by integrating objective gait analysis, muscle strength assessment, and patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs).In this prospective cohort study, 84 patients (THA: 36, TKA: 48; age ≥ 70 years) with Kellgren-Lawrence (K-L) grades III or IV osteoarthritis were evaluated pre-operatively and at two weeks and one, three, six, and 12 months post-surgery. Spatiotemporal gait parameters were collected using foot-mounted inertial sensors. Isokinetic dynamometry measured hip abductor (THA) or quadriceps muscle (TKA) strength. The PROMs, including the Hip Disability and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score for Joint Replacement (HOOS-JR) and the Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score for Joint Replacement (KOOS-JR), were collected at all time points. Correlation and regression analyses were performed to identify predictors of recovery.The TKA patients demonstrated significant and persistent gait asymmetry up to three months, which normalized by six months. The THA recovery was more symmetrical, with only transient asymmetry at one month. Pre-operative muscle strength was the strongest predictor of 12-month gait speed (β = 0.42, P < 0.001), while radiographic severity (K-L grade III versus IV) did not significantly predict functional gait recovery (P = 0.38). By 12 months, both groups approached normative values for gait and strength, with 94.0% of THA and 92.0% of TKA patients achieving the patient acceptable symptom state (PASS).Muscle strength, rather than radiographic severity, is the critical determinant of functional gait recovery after TJA in the elderly. Pre-operative muscle strength assessment should be incorporated into surgical planning to guide personalized post-operative rehabilitation strategies. Future prospective randomized trials incorporating pre-operative gait analysis and intervention arms are warranted to establish causal relationships.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study investigated the diagnostic accuracy of lung ultrasound (LUS) and serum KL-6 levels for detecting interstitial lung disease (ILD) in Sjögren's disease (SjD) patients.This retrospective study included 70 SjD patients evaluated at Shantou Central Hospital. All patients underwent chest high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT), LUS, and KL-6 measurement within one month. LUS was performed at 50 scanning sites. The presence and patterns of ILD were defined by HRCT findings. Serum KL-6 levels were measured using chemiluminescent enzyme immunoassay. Correlations between B-lines score, KL-6 level, and the HRCT Warrick score were analyzed. ROC curves with DeLong test and Spearman correlation analysis were performed to evaluate diagnostic efficiency and correlations with the Warrick HRCT fibrosis score.The concordance rate between LUS and HRCT was 82.86% (Kappa value = 0.6572). The optimal cut-off value for detecting SjD-ILD was 22 B-lines (AUC = 0.952, sensitivity 82.86%, specificity 100%). Serum KL-6 levels were also significantly higher in patients with ILD compared to those without ILD on HRCT (430.8 [274.6-698.3] vs. 240.4 [168.5-298.8]). ROC analysis showed that a serum KL-6 concentration of 329 U/mL was the optimal cut-off value for detecting ILD in SjD patients (AUC = 0.814, sensitivity 65.71%, and specificity 88.57%). B-line score, KL-6 level, and Warrick score presented significant pairwise positive correlations.LUS B-lines and serum KL-6 exhibit robust diagnostic value for SjD-ILD. The cut-offs > 22 B-lines and 329 U/mL KL-6 are recommended. Key Points • The concordance rate between LUS and HRCT was 82.86%, providing a noninvasive and reliable strategy for SjD-ILD screening, with an optimal cut-off of 22 B-lines (AUC = 0.952). • B-line score and serum KL-6 both strongly correlate with HRCT Warrick score, supporting their application as noninvasive tools to assess ILD severity in SjD.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to International League of Associations for Rheumatology (ILAR).
Efficient gene activation or repression through programmable CRISPR-Cas9 has revolutionized molecular biology and drug development. Nonetheless, the currently available CRISPRa/i approaches are modestly potent and require multi-component delivery, which hampers the wide use of the technology in both research and therapy.We developed a modular CRISPR-condensate platform by appending a multivalent RNA nanostar to the 3' end of a single-guide RNA, producing a sgRNA-nanostar chimera that mediates phase separation at Cas9-bound genomic loci. The nanostar scaffold also contains MS2 stem-loops, which recruit MCP-tagged transcriptional effectors (VP64 for activation, KRAB for repression) to the condensate microenvironment at high local concentration. We examined condensate formation, genome targeting, and transcriptional output by using live-cell imaging, RT-qPCR, ChIP-seq, RNA-seq and CUT&Tag in HEK293T, HeLa, U-2 OS, MDA-MB-231, as well as human iPSC cell lines.The CRISPR-condensate design resulted in up to 50-100-fold target-gene activation, compared with 5-10-fold activation by direct VP64 fusion, and 20-30-fold transcriptional repression, compared with 3-5-fold repression by direct KRAB fusion, with high target specificity (12 versus 28 non-target differentially expressed genes assessed by RNA-seq). Orthogonal kissing-loop (KL) pairings enabled independent condensate systems for simultaneous activation and repression of multiplexed targets. Janus condensates containing both activating and repressive domains enabled bidirectional regulation at a single locus. The system requires delivery of only three independently expressible components-dCas9-NLS, an sgRNA-nanostar chimera bearing MS2 stem-loops (MS2SLs), and an MCP-fused effector (VP64-MCP for activation or KRAB-MCP for repression)-and showed minimal innate immune response and high cell viability.The CRISPR-condensate system merges the dramatically enhanced transcriptional efficacy with the reduced complexity of components, providing a modular system for fine-tuned gene expression regulation. This strategy makes biomolecular condensation a general principle for enhancing CRISPR gene regulation, opening up possibilities for functional genomics, cell engineering, and therapy development.© The author(s).
In recent years, large language models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable advances in code generation. However, their massive parameter scales hinder deployment in resource-constrained environments. Knowledge distillation has emerged as an effective compression technique that transfers knowledge from a large teacher model to a smaller student model, thereby reducing computational cost while retaining strong generative capability. However, traditional distillation methods usually depend on forward and reverse Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence, aligning the probability distribution over the entire vocabulary. This process makes them susceptible to long-tail noise and often leads to weaker performance than supervised fine-tuning with labeled data. To address this issue, we propose a distillation approach based on ranking supervision. At each step, the method selects the candidate tokens with the highest probabilities from the teacher's output and applies a ListNet-based loss. This loss encourages the student to learn the teacher's ranking preferences. Unlike conventional KL distillation, ranking distillation avoids exhaustive alignment of low-confidence tokens, achieving comparable training time while significantly reducing GPU memory consumption. We conduct systematic evaluations on four public benchmarks (HumanEval, MBPP, DS-1000, and MultiPL-E). Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method consistently outperforms supervised fine-tuning as well as FKL and RKL baselines in Python code generation, multilingual generation, and data-science scenarios. Moreover, it maintains stable performance gains across different model scales, including both the Qwen2.5-Coder and DeepSeek-Coder families. Our method provides an effective solution for distilling large language models in code generation and offers guidance for future research in model compression.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
A novel dispersive solid-phase microextraction approach utilizing a magnetic molecularly imprinted polymer (MMIP) integrated with HPLC-UV detection was developed for the concurrent quantification of catechin and myricetin in herbal extracts and aqueous samples. The sorbent was engineered as a core-shell nanocomposite, consisting of a selective polymer layer deposited onto Fe3O4@SiO2-APTMS magnetic nanoparticles. Dual-template imprinting using catechin and myricetin generated complementary binding cavities within the polymer framework. Experimental variables influencing extraction were systematically screened and subsequently optimized. A Plackett-Burman design was first applied to identify the most influential factors, with pH and sorption time identified as the dominant variables. These parameters were subsequently fine-tuned using a central composite design, and the optimization process was completed in only 30 experimental runs. The sorption characteristics of the imprinted sorbent (MMIP) were compared with those of its non-imprinted counterpart (MNIP). The MMIP demonstrated markedly higher maximum binding capacities (Qmax), reaching 119.3 mg g-1 for myricetin and 112.1 mg g-1 for catechin, whereas the corresponding values for the MNIP were 32.55 and 32.08 mg g-1, respectively. Moreover, the affinity constants (KL = 0.760-0.950 L mg-1) were approximately 2.3-fold higher for the MMIP, confirming its stronger and more selective interactions with the target analytes. The selectivity coefficients for the targeted flavonoids relative to structurally related compounds, including ferulic acid, p-coumaric acid, melatonin, and curcumin, exceeded 3.5 for the MMIP, whereas the corresponding values for the MNIP were close to 1.1, demonstrating the high molecular recognition capability of the imprinted sorbent. Method validation demonstrated limits of detection (LODs) of 0.33-0.59 ng mL-1 and limits of quantification (LOQs) of 1.10-1.96 ng mL-1, and excellent linearity over the concentration range of 5.0-5500 ng mL-1 (R2 > 0.998). The method achieved recoveries of 93.96% to 105.69% with RSDs below 5.5%, while the preconcentration factors ranged from 209 to 229. Furthermore, the sorbent retained more than 95% of its extraction efficiency after four consecutive reuse cycles and more than 80% after six cycles, demonstrating excellent stability and reusability. The proposed method was successfully applied to the analysis of six medicinal plant extracts and water samples, showing negligible matrix interference and superior sensitivity, selectivity, and operational simplicity compared with conventional solid-phase extraction methods.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42550264 is a review article
Background Vascular factors have been associated with osteoarthritis (OA), but the association between popliteal artery wall morphology and symptomatic and radiographic knee OA outcomes over time remains unclear. Purpose To evaluate the associations between MRI-derived measures of popliteal artery wall morphology (localized wall thickening and global wall burden) and symptomatic and radiographic knee OA outcomes. Materials and Methods In this secondary analysis of the Osteoarthritis Initiative (February 2004 to October 2015), baseline knee MRI scans were analyzed to quantify maximum wall thickness and normalized wall index (NWI). Symptomatic OA was assessed using Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) pain scores, and radiographic OA using Kellgren-Lawrence (KL) grade. Cross-sectional and longitudinal associations were assessed using linear regression and Cox proportional hazards models, respectively, adjusted for demographic and clinical covariates. Results A total of 9333 knees from 4710 participants (mean age, 61.1 years ± 9.2 [SD]; 2753 female) were included. Each 1-mm increase in maximum wall thickness was associated with higher WOMAC pain scores (β = 2.0; P < .001) and KL grades (β = 0.1; P < .001), as well as symptomatic worsening (hazard ratio = 1.10 [95% CI: 1.02, 1.19]; P = .02) and incident radiographic OA (hazard ratio = 1.21 [95% CI: 1.02, 1.44]; P = .044). Each 10% increase in NWI was associated with higher WOMAC pain scores (β = 6.7; P < .001) and symptomatic worsening (hazard ratio = 1.38 [95% CI: 1.20, 1.58]; P < .001) but was inversely associated with KL grade (β = -0.1; P = .001) and incident radiographic OA (hazard ratio = 0.60 [95% CI: 0.43, 0.83]; P = .004). Conclusion Localized popliteal arterial wall thickening was associated with symptomatic OA worsening and incident radiographic OA, whereas diffuse wall remodeling was associated with symptomatic OA worsening and was inversely associated with radiographic outcomes. Clinical trial registration no. NCT00080171 © RSNA, 2026 Supplemental material is available for this article. See also the editorial by Jarraya and Harandi in this issue.
Post-COVID-19 condition (PCC) is associated with persistent cognitive dysfunction and fatigue, but limited evidence is available regarding long-term outcomes beyond one year.Longitudinal follow-up assessment.Patients who had been previously hospitalized or treated in primary care after COVID-19 infection.Cognitive performance (WAIS-III subtests, Rey Complex Figure, RAVLT, and D2 Test of Attention) and fatigue (MFI-20 and MFS) were examined in 82 participants at 18 months post-infection; 59 of these participants were reassessed at 36 months. Activity limitations were evaluated using structured interviews.At 18 months, the scores on most cognitive tests were significantly below expected premorbid levels (mean differences: 7-17 T-points). At 36 months, deficits persisted in most domains, with only WAIS Matrices and D2 KL showing modest improvement (Cohen's d: ~0.4). Fatigue remained high across all dimensions of MFI-20, and 75-78% of patients exceeding the mental fatigue cut-off of MFS. Self-reported cognitive impact and activity limitations showed minimal change over time.Post-COVID-19 cognitive dysfunction and fatigue remain prevalent for up to three years post-infection, particularly affecting attention, processing speed, and working memory. These deficits pose substantial barriers to daily functioning and return to work, highlighting the need for targeted rehabilitation strategies.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42548868 is a review article
Liver fibrosis is a progressive pathological process driven by liver injury, including viral hepatitis and metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH), and can progress to cirrhosis, liver failure, and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Hepatocyte-hepatic stellate cell (HSC) crosstalk plays a central role in disease progression, but its regulatory mechanisms remain incompletely understood.This study aimed to define hepatocyte-HSC crosstalk in liver fibrosis mediated by microRNA-149-5p (miR-149-5p) signaling and to explore its potential as a therapeutic target for intervention.Differentially expressed exosomal microRNAs were identified by RNA sequencing of hepatocyte-derived exosomes from fibrotic and control livers. Functional screening using collagen type I alpha 1 chain (COL1A1) reporter assays identified miR-149-5p as an anti-fibrotic candidate. Exosome-mediated intercellular communication was confirmed using co-culture systems and confirmed by tumor susceptibility 101 (TSG101) silencing. Liver fibrosis was induced by bile duct ligation (BDL) and thioacetamide (TAA) in mice. Therapeutic effects were evaluated using AAV-mediated hepatocyte-specific overexpression and miR-149-5p agomir administration.miR-149-5p was selectively enriched in hepatocyte-derived exosomes via a CCUC-based EXOmotif and directly targeted PDGFRB in HSCs, thereby inhibiting HSC activation, proliferation, and collagen deposition without affecting hepatocyte function. During fibrosis progression, PU.1 bound to the miR-149-5p promoter and suppressed its transcription, leading to reduced exosomal miR-149-5p delivery and consequent PDGFRB derepression in HSCs. Both AAV-mediated overexpression and systemic miR-149-5p agomir administration significantly attenuated BDL- and TAA-induced liver fibrosis, as evidenced by reduced collagen deposition, decreased hydroxyproline content, and downregulation of HSC activation markers.The PU.1 (hepatocyte)-miR-149-5p (exosome)-PDGFRB (HSC) axis represents a key regulatory pathway in liver fibrosis, wherein PU.1 represses miR-149-5p transcription in hepatocytes, leading to EXOmotif-dependent reduction of exosomal miR-149-5p delivery and consequent derepression of PDGFRB in HSCs, thereby promoting HSC activation and fibrosis progression. Importantly, miR-149-5p agomir administration offers a promising therapeutic strategy for liver fibrosis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Infantile myofibroma (IM) is the most common congenital fibrous tumor of infancy, originating from fibroblasts and myofibroblasts and present at birth in approximately 50%-60% of cases. Solitary IMs most often develop in the head and neck, less frequently on the trunk or extremities, and usually have an excellent prognosis in the absence of visceral involvement. Clinically, IM appears as a painless, firm, bluish-purple, freely mobile nodule and may occasionally show ulceration or skin atrophy, clinically mimicking hemangioma. Imaging typically shows well-defined masses with low-flow or peripheral vascularity, distinguishing them from highly vascular hemangiomas. Although solitary lesions may spontaneously regress within 18-24 months, surgical excision is advised when diagnosis is uncertain, functional risk exists, or for cosmetic or psychosocial reasons. Multicentric IM without visceral involvement also has a favorable outcome, whereas lesions with visceral involvement carry significantly higher morbidity and mortality. Mutations in PDGFRB and, less commonly, NOTCH3 are reported in IM and may guide future targeted therapies. In the absence of standardized guidelines, management must be individualized, with options including observation, surgical excision, and chemotherapy for extensive or visceral disease. Regular clinical and imaging follow-up is essential until lesion stabilization or regression is confirmed. Here, we present a female neonate with a scalp IM. Persistent ulceration, recurrent bleeding, inability to definitively exclude malignancy on imaging, and significant maternal distress warranted the decision for surgical excision. This case emphasizes the importance of individualized care in IM, guided by current literature on presentation, pathology, and treatment.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. on behalf of The American Society of Plastic Surgeons.
Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) survivors frequently experience a wide range of symptoms known as post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 (PASC) or long COVID. Importantly, complications arising from microvascular dysfunction, blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption, and chronic neuroinflammation have been implicated in driving PASC within the central nervous system (CNS), known as neuro-PASC. Notably, people with HIV (PWH), who suffer from chronic neuroinflammation, BBB impairment, and glial cell dysfunction, collectively known as neuro-HIV, are generally at higher risk of neuro-PASC. The overlap between neuro-PASC and neuro-HIV raises concerns that HIV and SARS-CoV-2 co-infection may exacerbate neurological dysfunctions among PWH. In this study, using an in-vitro cell culture model, we examine the effects of HIV and SARS-CoV-2 mono- and co-infection in microglia, astrocytes, and pericytes. Our results demonstrated that majority of brain cell types support SARS-CoV-2 replication, in the presence and absence of HIV infection. Furthermore, in both mono- and co-infected cells, there were varying degree of up- and downregulation of SARS-CoV-2 host cell entry factors, such as ACE2, TMPRSS2, NRP1, and TRIM28, and inflammatory cytokines including IL-6, TNF-α, and IL-1β. Moreover, conditioned media collected from HIV, SARS-CoV-2, and HIV/SARS-CoV-2 co-infected astrocytes and pericytes were shown to be neurotoxic. Additionally, proteomic analysis has revealed a unique set of proteins significantly up/down regulated in HIV/SARS-CoV-2 co-infected astrocytes and pericytes. The gene set enrichment analysis of these proteins indicates dysregulation of lipid, energy, and immune metabolism pathways linked to neurodegenerative disorders like Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, Huntington's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. These in-vitro findings indicate that astrocytes and pericytes from HIV/SARS-CoV-2 co-infection exhibit altered protein expression profiles, implicating dysregulated signaling pathways associated with neurodegenerative dysfunction.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Medical Virology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Membrane-bound neuropilin-1 (Nrp-1) has been implicated as a regulator of insulin resistance-related lipid metabolism, but little is known about its circulating form, soluble Nrp-1 (sNrp-1), in a metabolic context. Here we investigated the association between plasma levels of sNrp-1 and metabolic variables in 501 participants from the Prospective investigation of Obesity, Energy and Metabolism (POEM) study. Metabolic phenotyping included blood sampling, dual energy X-ray absorptiometry scan, magnetic resonance imaging for fat distribution, and a glucose tolerance test. Associations were examined using linear regression models and Spearman's rank correlation. Plasma sNrp-1 levels were inversely associated with levels of total fatty acids, triglycerides and lactate, and positively associated with markers of insulin sensitivity. In human Simpson-Golabi-Behmel Syndrome (SGBS) adipocytes, we showed that treatment with recombinant Nrp-1 reduced phosphorylation of hormone-sensitive lipase in the basal state and attenuated isoproterenol-stimulated glycerol release, a measure of total lipolytic activity. Based on these findings, we thus postulate that sNrp-1-mediated suppression of lipolysis could explain our observed association between plasma sNrp-1 and a favorable lipid profile in humans. Further studies are warranted to establish causality and to clarify the role of sNrp-1 in promoting insulin sensitivity in human adipose tissue.© 2026. The Author(s).
Myeloid/lymphoid neoplasms with tyrosine kinase fusions are rare but important because many are highly sensitive to targeted therapy. PDGFRB rearrangements are well-established drivers, whereas TPM3 is an exceptionally rare fusion partner.We performed longitudinal analysis of an elderly patient with hypereosinophilia, integrating morphology, cytogenetics, PDGFRB break-apart FISH, whole-transcriptome RNA sequencing, optical genome mapping, targeted myeloid DNA sequencing and exploratory fusion-specific RT-qPCR.A balanced t(1;5)(q21;q33) with PDGFRB rearrangement in 70% of nuclei was identified at diagnosis. RNA sequencing detected an in-frame TPM3 exon 8-PDGFRB exon 11 fusion, and optical genome mapping confirmed the balanced rearrangement. Low-dose imatinib induced durable haematologic and cytogenetic remission of the fusion-driven eosinophilic component. Serial DNA sequencing identified diagnostic ASXL1, EZH2 and low-level SRSF2 abnormalities that persisted during remission, followed by acquisition or expansion of SETBP1, CSF3R, ETNK1 and a distinct SRSF2 variant during late neutrophilic progression, without re-emergence of the PDGFRB rearrangement.TPM3::PDGFRB is a rare but actionable PDGFRB fusion. Durable suppression of the fusion-positive eosinophilic component was followed by a late CNL-like neutrophilic phase. The clonal relationship between these phases remains unresolved. Integrated longitudinal fusion testing and myeloid mutational profiling are therefore essential to characterize disease complexity.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Differentiating neoplastic proliferation from inflammatory fibrosis in peripheral nerve hypertrophy is critical. We report a patient with a neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) deletion exhibiting extreme diffuse nerve enlargement and chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP)-like autoimmunity. This study aims to elucidate the underlying endoneurial fibrotic mechanism, specifically focusing on the signaling networks between Schwann cells (SCs) and fibroblasts.Single-cell RNA sequencing was performed on a biopsied sural nerve to profile the cellular and transcriptomic landscape. Intercellular interactome and pseudotime trajectory analyses were utilized to map molecular evolution and signaling crosstalk.Transcriptomic profiling revealed that SCs-which normally maintain myelin around axons and support peripheral nerve function-were pathologically entrapped in a dedifferentiated state. Serving as a genetic primer, the NF1 deletion lowered the threshold for SC reprogramming, a vulnerability that was subsequently unleashed by a severe autoimmune infiltrate consisting of macrophages and T cells. These reprogrammed SCs abandoned myelin-maintaining genes, such as MPZ, to acquire a pro-fibrotic phenotype. Through a coordinated platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) dual-axis network involving PDGFC-PDGFRA and PDGFD-PDGFRB, the entrapped SCs exclusively secreted PDGF ligands that potently activated endoneurial fibroblasts and vascular mural cells. This persistent paracrine signaling orchestrated excessive extracellular matrix deposition, driving a massive expansion of the endoneurial interstitium and the formation of classic "onion bulbs".Our data suggest that the macroscopic hypertrophic changes observed in this specific clinical presentation may reflect an aberrant, immune-triggered fibrotic cascade-where autoimmune leukocyte infiltration continuously drives stromal overgrowth-complementing rather than entirely precluding the classical RAS/MAPK-driven neoplastic SC hyperproliferation. Furthermore, within the limitations of this pilot evaluation, characterizing this potential SC-fibroblast crosstalk indicates that the PDGF signaling pathway may warrant further investigation as a candidate translational therapeutic target for refractory hypertrophic neuropathies.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Cao, Lu, Huang, Bai, Zhang, Wang, Chen and Wang.
Ischemic heart disease remains a leading cause of mortality worldwide. Although mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) transplantation offers a promising strategy for myocardial infarction, its therapeutic efficacy is limited by poor cell survival and insufficient regenerative capacity. Traditional Chinese medicine has been widely used to promote blood circulation and treat ischemic diseases. Chuanxiong-Chishao (Ligusticum chuanxiong and Paeoniae Radix Rubra) is a commonly used herb pair for this purpose. This study aimed to investigate whether Chuanxiong-Chishao combined with MSCs could synergistically enhance angiogenesis after myocardial infarction. A rat model of myocardial infarction (MI) was established by permanent ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery, and the animals were randomly assigned to the sham, model, MSCs, and Chuanxiong-Chishao combined with MSCs (CC-MSCs) groups. MSCs were injected intramyocardially immediately after ligation, and herbal treatment was administered for 28 days. Cardiac function was evaluated by echocardiography, myocardial fibrosis by Masson staining, and angiogenesis by CD31 immunofluorescence. Proteomic profiling was performed using label-free quantitative analysis, and key proteins were validated by Western blot. Compared with MSCs alone, CC-MSCs significantly improved left ventricular ejection fraction, fractional shortening, and cardiac output, reduced infarct size, and enhanced neovascularization in MI rats. Proteomic analysis identified 154 differentially expressed proteins between the model and CC-MSCs groups, and Gene Ontology enrichment analysis indicated significant activation of angiogenesis-related processes. Among these proteins, CDC42, NRP1, and AMOT were markedly altered, which was further confirmed by Western blot analysis. These findings suggest that Chuanxiong-Chishao enhances MSC-mediated angiogenesis and cardiac repair after MI, potentially through modulation of angiogenesis-related protein networks.Copyright© 2025 Polish Physiological Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42528374 is a review article
Endothelial cells play a crucial role in tumor invasion and metastasis. This study explored endothelial cell-targeted therapies for ovarian cancer (OC).The scRNA-seq data were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database for cell clustering analysis. Key genes were identified through integrated analysis of bulk RNA-seq data from the GTEx and TCGA databases. Receptor-ligand interactions were inferred using the "CellChat" R package. Hub genes in endothelial cells were screened by hdWGCNA and intersected with protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis (cytoHubba) to obtain candidate genes. Biomarker genes were further selected using SVM-RFE and LASSO regression analysis. Drug prediction and immune infiltration analyses were subsequently performed. The role of COL1A1 was further investigated through in vitro cellular assays.Eight major cell subpopulations, including T cells and endothelial cells, were identified, with intercellular communication mediated by ligand-receptor pairs such as HLA-C-KIR2DL3 and CD99-CD99 pairs. hdWGCNA classified 5 modules and obtained 50 hub genes, from which cytoHubba screened 10 key intersecting genes. LASSO regression and SVM-RFE jointly identified 5 signature genes (CAV1, COL1A1, COL3A1, PDGFRB, and TIMP3). The expression of these genes was correlated positively with StromalScore, ImmuneScore, and ESTIMATEScore. Predicting cytarabine, genistein, and sorafenib were predicted as potential drugs for OC. COL1A1 knockdown inhibited the viability, migration, and invasion of OC cells in vitro.This study identified endothelial cells as an OC subpopulation and discovered 5 potential biomarker genes related to angiogenesis, immune infiltration, and prognosis in OC. Potential drugs for the treatment of OC were predicted, but further validations are also required.Our research revealed new clusters of endothelial cells in OC and identified potential biomarkers, contributing to the OC treatment that targets endothelial cells.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42516311 is a review article
Tumor immune barriers (TIBs) are spatially organized stromal-immune niches that restrict lymphocyte entry. To explain persistent immune-checkpoint blockade (ICB) resistance in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC), we mapped TIBs and defined a peritumoral variant built from POSTN+ cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) interlaced with APOE+ tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs). This niche excluded CD8+ T cells from tumor cores, and was enriched in poor-prognosis, ICB-refractory patients. Spatial transcriptomics and single-cell profiling showed TIB regions enriched for extracellular-matrix remodeling, immunosuppressive ligand-receptor circuits, and metabolic reprogramming. Mechanistically, tumor-derived TGF-β1 activated CAFs via SMAD signaling, inducing POSTN and recruiting APOE+TAMs through integrin and chemokine axes. TAMs secreted TGF-β1 and VEGFA, amplifying stromal programs and sustaining exclusion. Blocking POSTN reprogrammed macrophages, reduced matrix-mediated suppression, and restored CD8+ infiltration. In vivo, POSTN inhibition combined with ICB boosted antitumor immunity, reduced tumor burden, and reversed immunosuppressive infiltration, nominating POSTN-directed strategies to potentiate ICB.
Angiogenesis plays a significant role in the progression of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). The RNA-binding protein IGF2BP3 is associated with fibrosis and angiogenesis, but its role in IPF angiogenesis remain unclear. Additionally, Tianlongjie (TL) has been confirmed to inhibit IPF progression, but the role of IGF2BP3 in this process also needs to be elucidated. A bleomycin (BLM)-induced pulmonary fibrosis rat model was established via intratracheal instillation of BLM, and an angiogenesis cell model was constructed by treating HPMVECs with VEGF165. HE staining was used to detect lung tissue injury. Masson staining, HYP content measurement, Western blot, and Immunohistochemistry assessed to evaluate fibrosis and angiogenesis progression. EdU staining was employed to detect cell proliferation. RIP-qPCR and dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed to examine the interaction between IGF2BP3 and HIF-1α. IGF2BP3 was abnormally highly expressed in pulmonary fibrosis. IGF2BP3 knockdown reduced the expression of HYP, COL-I, COL-III, α-SMA, CD31, CD34, and VEGFA in pulmonary fibrosis rat lung tissues, increased E-cadherin expression, and inhibited pulmonary fibrosis progression and microvascular formation in rats. In vitro, IGF2BP3 knockdown suppressed cell proliferation, migration and vascular endothelial cell angiogenesis. Mechanistically, IGF2BP3 may promote HIF-1α stability through m6A modification, and HIF-1α overexpression attenuated the inhibitory effect of IGF2BP3 knockdown on angiogenesis. Furthermore, TL treatment was associated with reduced fibrosis and lower IGF2BP3/HIF-1α expression. In conclusion, IGF2BP3 can promote pulmonary fibrosis-related angiogenesis by stabilizing HIF-1α expression, and TL inhibits IGF2BP3 and HIF-1α expression, angiogenesis and fibrosis progression in pulmonary fibrosis rats.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Hypoxia is a defining feature of the tumor microenvironment and a key driver of malignant progression through transcriptional reprogramming of metabolic, angiogenic, and survival pathways. In this study, hypoxia-induced molecular responses were investigated in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HepG2) and breast adenocarcinoma (MCF-7) cells using cobalt(II) chloride (CoCl2) as a hypoxia mimetic. Cell viability profiling was performed to determine the optimal experimental concentration, followed by quantitative PCR analysis of hypoxia-related genes and miRNA-gene interaction network analysis. Cell viability profiling identified 100 µM CoCl2 as the optimal condition for downstream analyses. Quantitative PCR revealed robust induction of HIF-1α in both cell lines, indicating activation of hypoxic signaling. However, downstream responses differed markedly between cell types. MCF-7 cells exhibited significant upregulation of SLC2A1 and increased VEGFA and NFKB1 expression, consistent with activation of glycolytic and pro-angiogenic pathways. In contrast, HepG2 cells showed limited downstream transcriptional engagement despite elevated HIF1A expression. Furthermore, miRNA-gene interaction analysis revealed a dense regulatory network in MCF-7 cells, whereas HepG2 cells displayed a more restricted, VEGFA-centered miRNA profile. These findings demonstrate that chemical hypoxia induces cell-type-specific transcriptional and post-transcriptional responses in breast and liver cancer cells. The results suggest that miRNA-mediated regulation may contribute to differential tumor adaptation to hypoxic stress and highlight the importance of cellular context in hypoxia-associated signaling pathways.
Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) are the most common mesenchymal tumors of the gastrointestinal tract. Current tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) targeting oncogenic KIT and PDGFRA have improved patient outcomes, yet off-target toxicities and drug resistance mutations remain major clinical challenges. Many approved TKIs, often repurposed from other cancer indications, harbor diverse hinge-binding motifs that limit activity against resistance mutations clustering in the ATP-binding pocket of the kinase domain. Here, we describe a structure-based scaffold-hopping strategy to design kinase inhibitors with selectivity for mutant KIT/PDGFRA. Using structure-activity relationship (SAR) studies and 14 determined co-crystal structures, including a structure of the PDGFRA-G680R solvent-front mutation, we define key molecular interactions underlying resistance and inhibitor selectivity. Our lead 6,7-quinazoline-based inhibitors show high potency against clinically relevant KIT/PDGFRA mutations and effectively suppress downstream signaling. These compounds provide selective chemical tools to interrogate resistance mechanisms, and the PDGFRA-G680R structure shows the molecular basis for targeting solvent-front mutations across oncogenic kinases.© 2026. The Author(s).
Distal necrosis remains a common postoperative complication of perforator flaps, largely due to insufficient perfusion and inadequate angiogenesis in ischemic flap tissue. Transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) has been implicated in vascular regulation through calcium-dependent signaling pathways; however, whether pharmacological blockade of TRPV1 affects angiogenesis in perforator flaps remains unclear. In this study, capsazepine was used to pharmacologically block TRPV1 in a rat perforator flap model. The results showed that capsazepine treatment significantly reduced flap survival compared with vehicle treatment (64.5 ± 1.2 % vs. 79.0 ± 1.7 %) and impaired angiogenesis, as indicated by reduced vascular density and decreased expression of VEGF-A, eNOS, and MMP2. Capsazepine also reduced the phosphorylation of CaMKII, CaMKKβ, and AMPK, together with decreased Beclin1 expression, a reduced LC3-II/I ratio, and induced pro-apoptotic changes, as evidenced by increased Bax and cleaved caspase-3 expression and decreased Bcl-2 expression. Notably, pharmacological enhancement of autophagy with rapamycin reduced Bax expression and increased MMP2 expression. Collectively, these findings indicate that capsazepine-mediated TRPV1 blockade impairs perforator flap survival and angiogenesis, at least in part, through reduced CaMKII/CaMKKβ/AMPK activation and attenuation of autophagy. The rapamycin rescue findings position autophagy as an important functional intermediary between TRPV1-associated signaling and the regulation of apoptosis and angiogenesis in perforator flaps.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Lung cancer remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, highlighting the urgent need for effective and selective therapeutic agents. In this study, novel phenylalanine and tryptophan-derived hydrazone hybrids (9a-h and 10a-h) against lung cancer were designed, synthesized and characterized via analytic and spectral methods (FT-IR, 1H NMR, 13C NMR APT, and LC-MS/HR-MS). Cytotoxic activities of synthesized compounds were evaluated against human non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) (A549 and PC9) cells and human healthy lung epithelial BEAS-2B cells. Among the hydrazone hybrids, phenylalanine derivative compound 9d exhibited the most potent and selective cytotoxic effect against NSCLC cells, with IC50 values of 15.60 μM for A549 and 22.49 μM for PC9, and high selectivity indices (SI = 76.92 and 53.36, respectively). Mechanistic studies revealed that these compounds induce apoptosis in A549 cells, with a concomitant decrease in VEGF-A levels and downregulation of VEGFR-1 and 2 expression; this indicates a direct modulation of the tumor-autonomous VEGF signaling axis. Additionally, the compounds significantly activated caspase-3/7, 8, and 9 enzymes, confirming the triggering of both intrinsic and extrinsic apoptotic pathways. Furthermore, intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation and mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) depolarization were distinctly induced by compounds 10d and 10g, suggesting an additional mitochondrial stress-mediated mechanism of action within this series. Molecular docking simulations were performed to evaluate binding affinity within the VEGFR-2 active site. In vitro and in silico results identified compound 9d as a promising lead structure for further optimization of selective lung cancer therapeutics. Future studies were targeted at further optimizing drug-like properties and exploring downstream signaling kinetics.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a valuable non-human primate model organism with a long history of use in biomedical research, including investigating diseases with an immune component. However, prior to this effort, there has been a lack of sufficiently validated tools to quantify inflammatory markers in the common marmoset using a multiplex approach. We provide a cross-species reactivity validation of a human-specific multiplex analysis strategy that allows for the assessment of 20 distinct inflammatory analytes in a small volume of plasma isolated from common marmoset blood. We used this novel approach to perform an assessment of the impact of sex as a biological variable on a subset of these inflammatory analytes. We found that endogenous plasma levels of the following analytes are not significantly different between female and male marmosets: CRP, ICAM-1, VCAM-1, IL-13, IL-8, MIP-1β, IFN-g, IL-4, VEGF-A, FLT-1, and bFGF. These findings demonstrate the utility of our validated method for quantifying marmoset inflammatory markers.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Diffuse Gastric Cancer (DGC) is an aggressive subtype with a poor prognosis and a lack of specific biomarkers, representing a critical unmet need in oncology. This study aimed to elucidate the key molecular drivers of DGC by integrating RNA-seq data with a multi-faceted bioinformatics approach.We analyzed RNA-seq data from young-onset DGC and normal tissues (GSE113255, GSE122401). Machine learning (ML) feature selection (ReliefF algorithm) was used to prioritize genes, followed by protein-protein interaction network analysis to identify hub genes. Their roles were further investigated through Gene Ontology, KEGG pathway analysis, tumor microenvironment immune infiltration, miRNA-regulatory network analysis, transcription factor prediction, and computational drug repurposing analyses.Our ML‑driven approach identified seven hub genes central to DGC pathogenesis including CCL5, CXCR4, MMP9, FOXP3, IL18, TNFSF11, and TNFSF13B. Among these, three prioritized core hub genes (CXCR4, MMP9, and TNFSF13B) were selected based on statistically significant overexpression and complementary functional roles. Specifically, CXCR4 showed a Fold Change of 3.12 (Log2FC = 1.64, FDR = 0.01), MMP9 exhibited the highest magnitude of upregulation (Fold Change = 16.58, Log2FC = 4.05), and TNFSF13B demonstrated the most statistically significant differential expression (Fold Change = 2.32, Log2FC = 1.21, FDR < 0.000001). High CXCR4 expression was identified as a potential prognostic indicator associated with poorer overall survival in the TCGA‑STAD cohort (HR = 1.5, p = 0.0072). We delineated a core regulatory circuitry where NF‑κB (NFKB1/RELA) masterfully regulates the hub gene network. Drug repurposing analysis nominated several FDA‑approved agents, including the VEGF‑A inhibitor Bevacizumab, which indirectly suppresses CXCR4 and MMP9.This pilot study establishes a robust integrative framework that synergizes ML with network biology. It nominates CXCR4 and TNFSF13B as candidate therapeutic targets and highlights the potential of ML‑based feature selection for discovering biologically relevant, context‑dependent prognostic indicators in DGC. However, we emphasize that these findings are exploratory and hypothesis‑generating, requiring independent validation through experimental studies and larger cohorts before any clinical translation.Copyright: © 2026 Azni et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
In acute myeloid leukemia (AML), therapeutic resistance is intimately linked to vascular microenvironment remodeling; however, the initiating molecular determinants remain elusive. Here, we identified exosomal pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) as a pivotal mediator of this pathogenic process. PKM2 was abundantly present in AML-derived exosomes and transferred to human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs), eliciting metabolic reprogramming characterized by enhanced glycolysis and angiogenic activation. Mechanistically, PKM2 knockdown in AML cells substantially attenuated exosome-induced endothelial migration and tube formation, whereas ectopic PKM2 overexpression in endothelial cells potentiated pro-angiogenic phenotypes. In NOD/SCID mouse xenograft, AML-derived exosomes promoted microvascular remodeling and accelerated disease progression, effects that were abrogated by the angiogenesis inhibitor endostatin. This vascular remodeling coincided with diminished cytarabine (Ara-C) sensitivity, indicative of a chemoprotective microenvironment. Consistently, in a systemic AML model, pharmacological PKM2 inhibition disrupted the vascular niche, suppressed angiogenesis, and restored Ara-C chemosensitivity. Clinically, PKM2 expression correlated positively with VEGFA and HIF-1α levels, and exosomes derived from AML patients with elevated PKM2 conferred enhanced tube-forming capacity upon endothelial cells. Collectively, these findings establish exosomal PKM2 as a critical regulator of the chemoprotective vascular niche in AML and underscore its translational potential as a therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Atherosclerosis (AS), which causes chronic inflammation, aberrant lipid metabolism and vascular endothelial damage, is the main cause of cardiovascular disease. The Ce-Bai-Si-Wei decoction (CSD) may reduce AS, although its molecular mechanisms are unknown. This study investigates core molecular pathways using multi-omics integration and experimental validation.Network pharmacology prediction: Construct a 'drug-component-target-disease' interaction network using databases like TCMSP, HIT and ETCM to identify active components and targets of CSD. AS regulatory targets and signalling pathways can be identified by integrating microarray data and single-cell transcriptomics data. In vitro validation: Utilise the OX-LDL-induced model of macrophage foam cells to test CSD's effects on lipid accumulation utilising CCK-8, Oil Red O and TC/TG quantification. Validate CSD's regulatory effects on core targets using molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulation, RT-qPCR and Western blot.Four core genes, HMOX1, SELE, CD4 and FLT1, were identified as key regulators of inflammation and oxidative stress in AS, and they bind stably to the active components of CSD. Single-cell data analysis suggested that CSD may improve AS by targeting macrophages and endothelial cells. In vitro, CSD reduced ox-LDL-induced lipid accumulation in macrophages and downregulated TNF-α and IL-1β. Mechanistically, the anti-AS effect of CSD depends on the NRF2/HMOX1 pathway. CSD also downregulated FLT1 and SELE in damaged endothelial cells.This study investigated the mechanism of CSD in treating AS. CSD acts on the core targets HMOX1, SELE, FLT1 and CD4, with macrophages and endothelial cells as key effector cells. It exerts anti-AS effects by inhibiting inflammation, reducing lipid accumulation and protecting endothelial function.Copyright © 2026 Wanlu Sheng et al. Journal of Diabetes Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567753 is a review article
The molecular mechanisms by which KMT2A-rearranged (KMT2A-r) leukemias maintain the oncogenic FLT3 expression remain largely unclear, limiting therapeutic opportunities. Here, we identify the RNA binding protein MBNL1 as an unexpected positive regulator of FLT3 by DepMap dataset exploration and combinatorial CRISPR screens. MBNL1 promotes leukemia cell survival in cell lines and primary tumors by sustaining FLT3 expression in a KMT2A-r context-dependent manner. Mechanistically, we discover that MBNL1 recognizes a structured single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) element containing five consecutive guanines within the FLT3 enhancer, through MBNL1's zinc finger domains and the carboxyl-terminal unstructured region. Such MBNL1 protein/ssDNA interaction was evident in KMT2A-r leukemia using ChIP-seq and KAS-seq. Mutations of key amino acids of MBNL1's ssDNA binding surface or the critical guanines in ssDNA markedly abrogate the protein-ssDNA interactions. These findings implicate MBNL1 as a distinct FLT3 activator by recognizing a structured enhancer ssDNA element, highlighting an unexpected role for RNA binding proteins in transcriptional regulation through direct ssDNA recognition.
Chronic microglial neuroinflammation is a core driver of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Wei et al. recently reported a blood-brain barrier (BBB)-penetrating, microglia-targeting nanomodulator (Res@TcMNP/ASO) that simultaneously suppressed NF-κB signaling and enhanced NRF2-dependent antioxidant defense in chronically activated microglia, yet the molecular node coupling these two opposing circuits was not identified. In this perspective, drawing on primary literature spanning microglial inflammation, neuronal genome maintenance, tau regulation, and oncology, I propose that sirtuin 6 (SIRT6) is a plausible upstream candidate for this coordinated effect. SIRT6, a NAD+-dependent chromatin deacetylase, restrains NF-κB through H3K9 deacetylation at RELA target promoters and, in parallel, deacetylates and stabilizes NRF2 to amplify antioxidant transcription; its decline in the aging and AD brain promotes DNA damage and GSK3-driven tau hyperphosphorylation. Because a microglia-restricted carrier confines pathway modulation to the relevant cell population, this delivery strategy is well matched to a SIRT6-centered mechanism, while the context-dependent, potentially oncogenic nature of systemic SIRT6 activation reinforces the rationale for such restricted delivery. I outline specific loss- and gain-of-function experiments to test whether microglial SIRT6 mediates the dual-pathway effects of Res@TcMNP/ASO, offering a falsifiable hypothesis to guide future mechanistic and therapeutic work.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Small size of follicle, which may be due to summer, and high progesterone (P4) could hamper the ovulatory response to gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) at the beginning of GnRH-based protocols for estrus synchronization (GnRH-1), thus decreasing fertility. Accordingly, the objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of two-day extension in interval between presynchronization (Ovsynch) and breeding (Heatsynch) protocols and administration of prostaglandin F2α (PGF2α) two days before breeding protocol on size of the largest follicle (LF) and P4 concentration (PC) at GnRH-1, respectively, and fertility of cows during summer. Cows were randomly assigned to four experimental groups, including: 1) O7DH (cows with 7-day interval between Ovsynch and Heatsynch; n = 153), 2) O7DH+PG (cows with 7-day interval between Ovsynch and Heatsynch plus administration of PGF2α two days before Heatsynch; n = 156), 3) O9DH (cows with 9-day interval between Ovsynch and Heatsynch; n = 147), and 4) O9DH+PG (cows with 9-day interval between Ovsynch and Heatsynch plus administration of PGF2α two days before Heatsynch; n = 154). Further, cows were subjected to ultrasonographic examination and blood sampling at GnRH-1. Extension of the interval between Ovsynch and Heatsynch did not affect size of LF at GnRH-1 (P > 0.05); however, it decreased pregnancy risk (P < 0.05). Administration of PGF2α two days before Heatsynch decreased PC at GnRH-1 (P < 0.05), but it did not affect pregnancy risk (P > 0.05). In conclusion, the present study revealed that additional two days before breeding protocol did not increase follicle size at GnRH-1 and reduced fertility. Furthermore, PGF2α administration before breeding protocol could not improve fertility of cows despite reducing PC at GnRH-1.© 2026 The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563016 is a review article
Molecular co-mutations modulate outcomes in FLT3-mutated AML treated with gilteritinib; real-world data stratified by DNMT3A co-mutation status are lacking.We retrospectively analysed 29 adults with R/R FLT3-mutated AML treated at two Italian centres. Sixteen patients with complete molecular profiling were stratified into three subgroups by DNMT3A and NPM1 co-mutation status.Overall response rate was 89.7% (26/29). DNMT3A-mutated subgroups showed prolonged OS from gilteritinib initiation versus wild-type group (median not reached vs. 8.8 months; 12-month OS 78% vs. 17%).These hypothesis-generating data suggest that DNMT3A co-mutation status is associated with differential gilteritinib outcomes, supporting comprehensive molecular profiling in FLT3-mutated AML.The authors have confirmed clinical trial registration is not needed for this submission.© 2026 The Author(s). eJHaem published by British Society for Haematology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558501 is a review article
Early T-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ETP-ALL) is a high-risk subtype of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL). Aberrant CD19 expression in ETP-ALL may lead to misdiagnosis of mixed-phenotype acute leukemia. Notably, nucleophosmin 1 (NPM1) mutations, an established molecular hallmark of acute myeloid leukemia (AML), are extremely rare in T-ALL.We present the case of a 29-year-old male with progressive right retroauricular and cervical lymphadenopathies complicated by severe febrile neutropenia and polymicrobial sepsis. Peripheral blood testing revealed 80% blasts. Bone marrow flow cytometry demonstrated blasts strongly positive for cytoplasmic CD3 and CD7, with aberrant CD19 expression and co-expression of CD34, CD33, and dim cytoplasmic CD79a. The blasts showed dim CD5 expression but were negative for CD1a, CD8, CD10, CD22, and myeloperoxidase, consistent with an ETP-ALL immunophenotype. Next-generation sequencing identified an NPM1 frameshift mutation (p.W288Cfs*12, Type A) and an internal tandem duplication of the Fms-like tyrosine kinase 3 gene (FLT3-ITD), both classic AML-associated mutations. After management of severe sepsis, the patient received three cycles of VHAG (venetoclax, homoharringtonine, cytarabine, and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor)-based chemotherapy followed by haploidentical allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT). He remained in sustained complete remission at the 7-month follow-up after allo-HSCT.To our knowledge, this case represents the first reported ETP-ALL with an NPM1 frameshift mutation (p.W288Cfs*12, Type A), which also exhibited aberrant CD19 expression, highlighting the diagnostic challenges posed by unusual immunophenotypic and genomic profiles.Copyright © 2026 Lu, Chen, Zhang and Wu.
Secondary lymphedema remains poorly understood, particularly with regard to early human tissue responses after lymphatic outflow disruption. This study evaluates the perforator-based adipocutaneous skin paddle (PBASP) from vascularized free muscle flaps as a hypothesis-generating human tissue platform for early localized lymphatic insufficiency. The PBASP, receives arterial and venous perfusion but is not reconnected to physiological lymphatic outflow and was therefore hypothesized to develop changes consistent with early local lymphatic outflow insufficiency. Tissue samples were collected from 15 patients who underwent free muscle flap transfer, with PBASP samples obtained 7-14 days post-surgery. Histological, immunofluorescence, molecular, and protein analyses were performed to assess lymphangiogenesis, inflammation, extracellular matrix remodeling, and adipogenesis. PBASP tissue exhibited epidermal thickening, dermal expansion, subcutaneous matrix loosening, and leukocyte infiltration. Immunofluorescence showed a 3.6-fold increase in LYVE-1 + lymphatic vessel cross-sectional area. Gene expression analysis revealed upregulation of markers like VEGF-C, VEGFR3, IL-6, and MMP-9. ELISA demonstrated increased LYVE-1, IL-6, and COL1A1 protein levels. Together, PBASP tissues showed structural, lymphatic-marker, inflammatory, and early remodeling changes consistent with early localized lymphatic outflow insufficiency. Together, these findings support the PBASP-derived approach as a paired human tissue platform for studying early, localized lymphatic insufficiency and for generating mechanistic hypotheses relevant to secondary lymphedema.© 2026. The Author(s).
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and acute myeloid leukemias (AML) harboring TP53 mutations are defined by extreme genomic instability, complex karyotypes (CK), and poor prognosis. While large-scale chromosomal imbalances are common in CK-MDS/AML, the synergy between focal amplifications of signaling drivers and the disruption of transcriptional regulators remains poorly elucidated.We performed a comprehensive clinical, cytogenetic (GTG-banding, M-FISH, M-Band), and molecular (targeted FISH, NGS) analysis of seven patients with MDS and AML characterized by a recurrent and distinct genomic signature.All cases exhibited highly complex karyotypes on a TP53-mutated background. We identified high-level focal amplifications of EPOR (19p13.2) and JAK2 (9p24.1), predominantly manifesting as homogeneously staining regions (HSRs) or complex "sandwich-like" derivative chromosomes. Notably, these signaling alterations consistently co-occurred with monoallelic deletions of the TCF3 (E2A) tumor suppressor (19p13.3) and copy number gains of the ERG transcription factor (21q22). Detailed structural analysis indicates that TCF3 loss likely arises as a structural consequence of chromosome 19 rearrangements driving EPOR amplification. Based on this data, we propose a conceptual model of leukemogenesis where EPOR/JAK2 co-amplification potentially drives constitutive JAK2/STAT5 signaling, while concurrent ERG gain and TCF3 haploinsufficiency contribute to maturation delay. TP53 deficiency appears to be the primary permissive factor enabling the stabilization of these massive structural rearrangements.Our findings outline a recurrent and biologically coherent genomic pattern within the spectrum of TP53-mutated myeloid neoplasms, demonstrating significant phenotypic overlap with erythroid leukemia features in a subset of cases. Given the small cohort size, these findings are hypothesis-generating. However, this convergence of predicted JAK2/STAT5 pathway hyperactivation and transcriptional disinhibition points to a theoretical therapeutic vulnerability that warrants prospective validation in larger collaborative studies.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Vocal fold fibrosis (VFF), characterized by excessive extracellular matrix deposition, leads to permanent voice impairment, with current therapies often failing to restore vocal function. Current treatments are limited by suboptimal efficacy and high recurrence rates. Dysregulated energy metabolism is emerging as a critical driver of fibrosis. AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), a central cellular energy sensor, exerts broad antifibrotic effects in multiple organs, yet the therapeutic potential of novel AMPK activators, such as Aldometanib, in VFF remains to be fully characterized. This study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic potential and mechanisms of Aldometanib, a novel AMPK activator, in vocal fold fibrosis.A controlled animal study was conducted using an SD rat vocal fold injury model. Animals were randomly allocated into four groups: control, injury, and injury treated with low or high doses of Aldometanib. Primary vocal fold fibroblasts were isolated and cultured, then stimulated with TGF-β1 to induce fibroblast activation, followed by treatment with different concentrations of the AMPK activator Aldometanib. Key outcome measures included histopathological analysis of collagen deposition (Alcian blue and EVG staining), protein and gene expression levels of fibrotic markers (α-SMA, COL1A1, FN1), and components of the JAK2/STAT3 signaling pathway (p-AMPK, p-JAK2, p-STAT3).In vivo, compared with the injury only group, Aldometanib treatment significantly improved the histological architecture of the vocal fold lamina propria. These changes were accompanied by increased p-AMPK levels and decreased expression of p-JAK2, p-STAT3, α-SMA, COL1A1, and FN1. In vitro, Aldometanib attenuated TGF-β1-induced fibroblast activation, and these effects were effectively reversed by co-treatment with the AMPK inhibitor DOX, confirming AMPK pathway dependency.Pharmacological activation of AMPK with Aldometanib effectively alleviates vocal fold fibrosis by inhibiting the JAK2/STAT3 signaling axis. This study identifies AMPK as a promising novel therapeutic target for vocal fold fibrosis, supporting future development of more potent or specific AMPK activators and localized delivery systems for clinical translation.Copyright © 2026 The Voice Foundation. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The Philadelphia chromosome-negative myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs) are a group of haematological malignancies triggered by a driver mutation, most commonly the JAK2 V617F mutation, which is acquired in a haematopoietic stem cell. The diseases are characterised by an overproduction of myeloid cells and may result in severe complications such as thrombosis, myelofibrotic transition, and potentially progression to acute myeloid leukaemia. Treatment with interferon-α (IFN-α) can potentially deplete the disease-driving malignant stem cell population, thereby leading to long-term remission. We extend a mechanistic compartmental differential equation model of MPN progression to account for the effects of IFN-α treatment. In agreement with experimental mouse studies, we assume that IFN-α acts through effects on malignant stem cell differentiation and malignant progenitor and precursor cell apoptosis. We use a hierarchical Bayesian inference procedure to infer the drug response parameters of the model based on measurements of the JAK2 V617F variant allele frequency (VAF) for N=56 patients from the Danish DALIAH study, both on the individual and the population level, with 14 patients left out for subsequent testing. The model estimates are found to agree with data. The drug response parameters are found to act synergistically on the reduction of JAK2 VAF, with the model being able to capture qualitatively different types of treatment responses. Using the inferred information about the population distribution of drug response parameters is found to improve predictions compared to predictions without prior knowledge on a testing cohort. Such predictions may aid clinical decision-making regarding IFN-α treatment in patients with MPNs.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Ropeginterferon alfa-2b, a novel monopegylated interferon with improved pharmacokinetics, has emerged as a promising cytoreductive agent for managing polycythemia vera (PV). Despite increasing adoption, evidence synthesis of its efficacy and safety compared to standard care remains limited. The manuscript aimed to evaluate the efficacy of ropeginterferon alfa-2b in comparison to standard treatment options, including hydroxyurea and phlebotomy, in achieving complete hematologic response, partial molecular response (PMR), and reducing JAK2V617F allele burden in patients with PV.A systematic search of 4 databases was conducted up to April 2025, following PRISMA 2020 guidelines. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing ropeginterferon alfa-2b with standard therapies in PV patients were included. Meta-analyses were performed using random-effects models to derive odds ratios for dichotomous outcomes and mean differences (MDs) for continuous outcomes. Sensitivity and subgroup analyses were conducted, and risk of bias was assessed using RoB 2.0.Three RCTs comprising 522 patients were analyzed. Ropeginterferon alfa-2b showed no statistically significant advantage overall or over hydroxyurea for complete hematological response (CHR), PMR, or JAK2 allele burden reduction. However, subgroup analyses revealed significant benefits over phlebotomy alone in all 3 outcomes: CHR (odds ratio [OR] 3.05; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.36-6.80; P = .007), PMR (OR 36.34; 95% CI: 2.11-625.93; P = .01), and allele burden reduction (MD -13.70; 95% CI: -19.24 to -8.16; P < .00001).Ropeginterferon alfa-2b demonstrates no statistically significant difference compared to hydroxyurea, but gives better outcomes over phlebotomy in short-term efficacy for PV management. Its favorable molecular and hematologic outcomes support its role as a disease-modifying therapy, particularly in low-risk patients. However, larger and longer-term trials are needed to confirm these benefits across broader populations.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Polycythemia vera (PV) is a JAK2-associated clonal myeloproliferative neoplasm characterized by erythroid hyperplasia. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first reported case of acute hyper-viscosity encephalopathy as the initial manifestation of suspected PV in a resident of extreme high altitude-a diagnosis frequently mistaken for altitude-induced secondary polycythemia in this population.A 37-year-old Tibetan man, lifelong resident at 4,100 m, presented with acute encephalopathy characterized by altered consciousness, gait ataxia, and headache. Neurological examination confirmed higher cortical dysfunction. Laboratory studies showed marked erythrocytosis (hemoglobin 229 g/L, hematocrit 77.4%) with paradoxically suppressed serum erythropoietin (EPO, 1.2 mIU/mL). Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) revealed acute bilateral frontoparietal and centrum semiovale diffusion-restricted lesions. Neurological symptoms resolved rapidly after osmotic therapy for intracranial hypertension. These findings were consistent with suspected PV based on WHO diagnostic criteria.This case suggests that acute infection may trigger life-threatening hyper-viscosity syndrome in suspected PV at extreme altitudes. EPO assessment and JAK2 mutational analysis are recommended to be included in the diagnostic algorithm to distinguish malignant PV clones from compensatory polycythemia and to prevent catastrophic neurological outcomes in high-altitude residents.Copyright © 2026 Yao and Chen.
Obesity, a major health issue linked to metabolic disorders, is driven by multiple factors, including impaired leptin signaling, particularly in the Janus kinase 2 (JAK2)/Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) pathway. This study investigated the impact of aldehyde-containing food additives on leptin receptor activated signaling in cells. We examined the effects of 39 different aldehyde-containing compounds, commonly used in food additives, on leptin-induced STAT3 transcriptional activity through a reporter gene assay. Three aldehydes, i.e., 2-pyrrolecarboxaldehyde, o-anisaldehyde, and piperonal were found to reduce leptin-induced STAT3 transcriptional activity in a concentration-dependent manner without affecting cell viability. These additives did not alter conformational changes of the leptin receptor, STAT3 phosphorylation, or its nuclear translocation, nor did they induce endoplasmic reticulum stress. These additives likely affect a downstream step in leptin signaling, specifically transcriptional regulation by STAT3, without disrupting early receptor signaling events. These finding suggest that some aldehyde-based food additives may contribute to leptin resistance and potentially to the development of obesity.Copyright © 2026 Shibuya, Yoshida, Tsuge, Hamasaki, Kuriya, Nakagawa, Sugiyama, Miyamoto, Shimamoto, Jockers, Dam and Hosoi.
Shenqi Compound (SQC) is effective in treating type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Preliminary clinical observations suggest that it may also improve pancreatic fibrosis in T2DM patients with comorbid chronic pancreatitis (CP), which prompted this mechanistic study.This study aimed to reveal the multi-component, multi-target, and multi-pathway mechanism of SQC in pancreatic exocrine and endocrine diseases by integrating LC-MS/MS, network pharmacology, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulation, and in vivo validation.Active components and targets of SQC were screened using network pharmacology and LC-MS/MS. Molecular docking and dynamics simulation validated key component target binding. A mouse model of comorbid CP and T2DM was established by feeding a 60% high-fat diet for six weeks, combined with intraperitoneal injection of caerulein (50 μg/kg, six times daily, three days per week, for six weeks) followed by streptozotocin (50 mg/kg daily for five consecutive days). Pancreatic function, histopathology, and protein expression were assessed.Network pharmacology identified 145 active components acting on 242 targets, with IL-6, JAK2, and STAT3 as core targets. Quercetin, kaempferol, and luteolin showed good binding to these proteins. The luteolin JAK2 complex remained stable over 100 ns. In animal experiments, SQC improved body weight and food intake, lowered fasting blood glucose, and increased serum glucagon, insulin, lipase, amylase, and fecal elastase 1. SQC also reduced pancreatic IL-6 and TNF-α, alleviated pathological damage and fibrosis, downregulated gp130 and JAK2/STAT3 phosphorylation, and upregulated SOCS3.SQC treatment is associated with the suppression of the IL-6/JAK2/STAT3 pathway, accompanied by reduced inflammation, decreased fibrosis, and improvements in both exocrine and endocrine functions in model mice. These findings suggest that the formula potentially acts as a holistic regulator, though the direct causal relationship requires further verification through pathway blockade or genetic ablation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains a global health challenge with limited efficacy of single-target therapies. Esculin and esculetin, the main coumarins of Cortex Fraxini, have been reported to exhibit anti-tumor activities in various cancer cell lines in preclinical studies. This study systematically elucidated the synergistic anti-CRC mechanisms of esculin and esculetin by integrating network pharmacology, bioinformatics, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and in vitro validation. Network pharmacology predicted 23 overlapping targets, with 10 core proteins significantly enriched in the PI3K-Akt and JAK2-STAT3 pathways, further supported by bioinformatics analysis. Molecular docking and 100-ns molecular dynamics simulations revealed that the esculin-esculetin complex exhibited stronger binding affinity and stable interaction with EGFR compared with each monomer. In vitro, the natural 5:1 combination synergistically inhibited HCT116 and HT29 cell proliferation, suppressed colony formation, migration, and invasion, downregulated the phosphorylation of PI3K, Akt, JAK2 and STAT3, reduced EGFR, TOP1 and CDK2 mRNA, decreased the Bcl-2/Bax ratio, and increased cleaved caspase-3 levels. Quantitative validation by EdU, TUNEL, and flow cytometry confirmed concentration-dependent inhibition of proliferation and induction of apoptosis. These findings demonstrate that esculin and esculetin co-target EGFR and simultaneously block downstream PI3K-Akt and JAK2-STAT3 dual pathways, providing a multi-component, multi-target, multi-pathway synergistic model for C. fraxini-based combination therapy against CRC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42557631 is a review article
Pacritinib (PAC), a potent inhibitor of JAK2, is currently being explored as a potential therapeutic agent against GBM, which is an aggressive and vascularized brain tumor, resistant to many therapies. The therapeutic potential of PAC is hindered due to its poor water solubility and low brain bioavailability. In the current study, a PAC-loaded nanoemulsion (PAC-NE) was formulated to deliver the drug through the intranasal (IN) route for better solubilization, nasal absorption, and brain targeting. The optimized formulation of PAC-NE exhibited a mean droplet size of 18.78 ± 0.4 nm and a polydispersity index (PDI) value of 0.183 ± 0.007, representing a highly homogenous and uniform NE, which is appropriate for nasal administration. In vitro evaluation of the anticancer efficacy in 2D cell culture and 3D tumor spheroid model (3DS) proved that PAC-NE greatly improved the cellular uptake, cytotoxicity, and tumor spheroid inhibition activity compared with free PAC. In addition, ex vivo nasal permeation was greatly improved by the optimized formulation, showing a flux value of 1.27 ± 0.06 µg/cm2/h and a permeability coefficient value of 2.4 × 10⁻7 ± 0.19 cm/s, which were significantly higher than that of the plain drug. Moreover, the histopathological examination demonstrated no sign of damage to the nasal mucosa. Pharmacokinetics analysis following IN application revealed that the optimized NE depicted greater brain-targeting ability, where there was an improvement in %DTE by 1.99-fold and in %DTP by 2.75-fold in comparison to free PAC. Overall, from the above observations, it can be concluded that PAC-NE is a non-invasive delivery system which shows promising results for better brain delivery thereby supporting the clinical translation of PAC for GBM therapy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567458 is a review article
To investigate the association between purine metabolism-related genes and trigeminal neuralgia (TN) using multiomics approaches.A multiomics summary-data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR) approach was applied to investigate associations between purine metabolism-related genes and TN. Genome-wide association study (GWAS) data from FinnGen R10 were integrated with blood-derived DNA methylation quantitative trait loci (mQTL), expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL), and protein quantitative trait loci (pQTL) datasets. Associations were evaluated by colocalization and replication in UKBB (G6_TRINEU) and FinnGen R12. Drug-target MR analysis used blood eQTL variants as proxies for gene expression. GEO transcriptomic and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) datasets and GTEx brain tissue eQTL data provided expression and tissue-level validation. Functional enrichment, protein-protein interaction network, and druggability analyses were performed.SMR analysis identified 238 mQTLs (127 genes), 30 eQTLs, and 3 pQTLs associated with TN. Colocalization supported 96 mQTLs (23 genes), 18 eQTLs, and 3 pQTLs, with 42 mQTLs and the CNOT7 eQTL validated in UKBB. POMGNT2 showed genetically predicted associations with TN at both gene and protein levels. Integrative analysis highlighted ATP6V0E2, PLAT, and VKORC1 with evidence of epigenetic regulation. Drug-target MR provided supportive evidence that genetically proxied expression of CNOT7 and PLAT may be associated with lower TN risk. Transcriptomic validation showed downregulation of ATP6V0E2, PLAT, and CNOT7 after trigeminal nerve injury. Brain eQTL analysis supported the association of CNOT7 with TN across multiple brain regions. scRNA-seq revealed cell-type-specific expression patterns of prioritized genes in trigeminal ganglion tissues. Functional enrichment indicated involvement in stress response, metabolism, and genome maintenance pathways. PPI analysis identified six hub genes: ABCB1, COMT, GFM1, MDH2, NRAS, and TXN. Druggability analysis showed that ATP6V0E2, PLAT, and VKORC1 are targetable by existing drugs.This study prioritizes purine metabolism-linked genes showing genetically supported associations with TN and highlights potential biological pathways and therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2026 Simin Shen et al. Pain Research and Management published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Ovarian endometrioma (OEM) is a common manifestation of endometriosis and is associated with both local lesions and systemic alterations. While immune dysregulation and metabolic disturbances have been individually reported in endometriosis, whether these changes are coordinated at the circulating molecular level in OEM remains unclear.We performed an exploratory integrative analysis of serum proteomic and untargeted metabolomic profiles in women with OEM and healthy controls. Differential analyses were conducted for each omics layer, followed by cross-omics integration to assess pathway-level relationships between molecular alterations. Selected platelet-associated proteins were further evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in a small independent cohort.Serum proteomics profiling showed predominant alterations in immune-related and extracellular processes, whereas metabolomic analysis revealed changes mainly involving lipid metabolism, amino acid metabolism, and redox-related pathways. Cross-omics integration suggested pathway-level correspondence between the two omics layers, particularly in carbohydrate metabolism, nucleotide metabolism, lipid remodeling, and antioxidant defense. Among platelet-associated proteins, pro-platelet basic protein (PPBP/CXCL7) showed higher levels in OEM in both proteomic profiling and ELISA validation, while MMRN1 and PDGFA showed concordant but non-significant increases in the ELISA cohort.These findings suggest that OEM is associated with concurrent immune-related and metabolic alterations detectable in the circulation. Integrative multi-omics analysis provides exploratory evidence for pathway-level correspondence between proteomic and metabolomic alterations in OEM and provides limited independent support for a platelet-associated circulating signal, with PPBP showing the most consistent validation.Copyright © 2026 Chen, Hu, Xiao, Ma, Zhu, Gao, Zhang and Jin.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42557142 is a review article
Diabetes mellitus (DM) is characterized by chronic metabolic stress that promotes oxidative damage, genomic instability, and premature cellular aging, with adipose tissue senescence being a pivotal contributor to metabolic dysfunction. Yet the impact on DNA damage repair (DDR) and telomere maintenance in adipose tissue remains poorly defined. This study investigated DDR capacity, telomere integrity, and the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) in adipose tissue and adipose-derived stromal cells (ADSCs) under diabetic conditions. Using an obese diabetic (ob/ob) mouse model, we confirmed whole-blood telomere shortening, significant adipose tissue hypertrophy, metabolic dysregulation, and elevated DNA damage, evidenced by increased γH2AX-positive staining. In vitro, ADSCs exposed to a diabetic microenvironment (AGEs and TNFα) exhibited increased reactive oxygen species and DNA damage without a corresponding activation of DDR pathways, as indicated by unchanged PARP1 levels and broad downregulation of key DNA repair genes, including sensors (ATM, ABL1, RAD17) and effectors across MMR, NER, HR, and NHEJ pathways. This impaired genomic surveillance was accompanied by premature cellular senescence and significant repression of genes involved in telomere protection (shelterin complex), telomerase activity, and telomere maintenance, together with marked telomere shortening following prolonged exposure. Furthermore, diabetic conditions increased the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines, chemokines, and growth factors. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that the diabetic microenvironment is associated with maladaptive DDR responses, telomere dysfunction, cellular senescence, and a pro-inflammatory secretory phenotype. This study highlights compromised genomic maintenance as a potential key mechanism underpinning adipose tissue dysfunction in DM and emphasizes the need for future investigations into the mechanisms underlying dysregulated DDR and telomere biology.© the author(s).
Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP) is a fibroblastic malignancy characterized in most cases by COL1A1::PDGFB fusion. Rare cases exhibit alternative rearrangements involving PDGFD. Here, we describe a female patient in her third decade of life who presented with a spindle cell proliferation on the shoulder. Expression of pan-TRK and S100, together with absence of PDGFB overexpression, supported an initial impression of NTRK-rearranged spindle cell tumor. However, molecular analysis revealed PDGFD rearrangement, and re-excision demonstrated classic DFSP morphology in the residual tumor. Our findings underscore the importance of continued consideration for DFSP in tumors with focal S100 expression.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cutaneous Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The rarer p190 (e1a2) transcript in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is associated with atypical presentations; yet, its biological basis remains poorly understood. Using a cohort of 60 patients including 42 chronic phase patients age-matched 1:1 with 42 e13a2/e14a2 patients in the chronic phase, we investigated the clinical, genomic, and clonal features of e1a2 BCR::ABL1 CML. We identified 60 e1a2 BCR::ABL1 CML patients showing distinctive hematologic features including lower leukocyte and platelet counts and higher monocytosis (12.3% vs. 2.0%, P < 0.001). Additional somatic mutations were detected in 37/42 (88%) e1a2 BCR::ABL1 cases compared with 7/42 (17%) e13a2/e14a2 BCR::ABL1 cases. The mutational spectrum was dominated by ASXL1 and TET2, and closely resembled CMML-like profiles. Genomic breakpoint sequences of 34 e1a2 BCR::ABL1 cases showed that BCR and ABL1 coordinates were similar to those observed in 394 B-ALL. Longitudinal mutational tracking revealed two distinct clonal architectures. In 71% of patients, mutations disappeared with molecular response, consistent with BCR::ABL1 as the founding event. In contrast, 29% of patients had mutations with stable VAFs, while BCR::ABL1 transcript levels decreased after treatment, indicating that the fusion had been acquired within a pre-existing mutated clone. Single-cell genotyping experiments confirmed these clonal architectures. These patients frequently developed cytopenias under tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy and half required red blood cell transfusions, reflecting persistence of the ancestral clone rather than BCR::ABL1-driven disease. These findings show that e1a2 BCR::ABL1 CML frequently arises within complex, premutated clonal backgrounds, providing a biological basis for its atypical presentation and heterogeneous treatment response.© 2026 The Author(s). HemaSphere published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of European Hematology Association.
Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is a rare hematologic malignancy in children, typically presenting with leukocytosis in the peripheral blood, and often accompanied by symptoms such as fever or splenomegaly. This report describes a rare pediatric case of CML that manifested solely as isolated thrombocytosis. Due to this atypical presentation, the patient was initially misdiagnosed with essential thrombocythemia (ET) and treated with hydroxyurea and aspirin, which yielded no clinical response. The diagnosis of CML was subsequently confirmed by detection of the BCR::ABL1 fusion gene. Upon confirmation, the patient was promptly initiated on imatinib therapy and achieved a complete cytogenetic response within 4 months. We also conducted a literature review of similar cases, discussing their prognosis and differential diagnosis with ET, and recommend early BCR::ABL1 fusion gene testing in all pediatric patients presenting with isolated thrombocytosis to ensure accurate diagnosis.© 2026 He and Fu.
Cirrhosis is the end-stage of chronic liver disease characterized by progressive hepatic fibrosis and persistent immune dysregulation, yet the mechanisms by which immune cell crosstalk drives disease progression remain poorly understood.In the present study, we integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomic analyses with immunofluorescence validation to investigate the role of the CCL20-CCR6 axis in MAIT cells-macrophages interactions during cirrhosis progression.We identified eight core cirrhosis-associated immune genes (OGN, IL32, CCL19, PDGFA, CCL20, NTS, SEMA3C, HSPA2), among which CCL20 was selectively enriched in mucosal-associated invariant T cells (MAIT) and closely associated with their activation- and exhaustion-related transcriptional profiles. Cell-cell communication analysis revealed that the CCL20-CCR6 axis may specifically mediate bidirectional interactions between MAIT cells and M2 macrophages, forming a disease-specific positive feedback loop within the cirrhotic microenvironment. Immunofluorescence staining further confirmed the enrichment and colocalization of CCL20, MAIT cells, and M2 macrophages in cirrhotic tissues.Collectively, these findings support the CCL20-CCR6 axis as a key regulator of hepatic immune dysregulation and fibrotic progression in liver cirrhosis, highlighting its potential as both a biomarker of disease activity and a therapeutic target for cirrhosis intervention.Copyright © 2026 Chen, Li, Zhang, Lou, Zhang, Lou, Zhang, Xu, Jiang and Lv.
Early achievement of deep remission improves patients' outcome in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) treatment, highlighting the need for predictive indicators before therapy initiation. This study aimed to investigate whether baseline hematologic profiles are associated with molecular response in CML. Using hierarchical clustering of complete blood count (CBC) data at diagnosis, patients were stratified into two clusters. Patients in Cluster 1 had higher BCR::ABL1IS mRNA levels at 3 and 6 months post-treatment and lower rates of major molecular response compared to cluster 2. Cluster 1 also showed increased granulocyte and immature white blood cell counts and decreased erythroid parameters. Flow cytometric analysis of bone marrow mononuclear cells revealed that cluster 1 had a significant increase in hematopoietic stem cell fractions and a higher ratio of granulocyte-macrophage progenitors to megakaryocyte-erythroid progenitors compared to cluster 2. These findings suggest that differences in bone marrow progenitor cell differentiation affect peripheral blood profiles. Artificial intelligence-driven ghost cytometry (GC) comprehensively captured these differences, distinguishing poor responders, with diagnostic GC scores correlating with BCR::ABL1IS mRNA levels. The study indicates that multivariate analysis of CBC and GC captures biological features associated with early molecular response in CML. TEASER ABSTRACT: Baseline complete blood count (CBC) profiles stratified patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) into biologically distinct groups with different early molecular responses. Poor responders had higher BCR::ABL1IS levels, lower major molecular response rates, expanded hematopoietic stem cell fractions, and granulocyte-macrophage progenitor-biased differentiation. Artificial intelligence-driven Ghost Cytometry (GC) comprehensively captured these response-associated features of CBC with scores correlating with BCR::ABL1IS levels. Together, CBC and GC capture biological features associated with early molecular response in CML.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Patients with Peyronie's disease (PD) generally present to physicians with complaints of a palpable penile mass and deformity. PD is characterized by the formation of fibrous plaques in the tunica albuginea layer of the penis. Oxidative stress is considered to play an effective role in this disease. Thiol-disulfide parameters are markers that dynamically reflect oxidative stress. The enzyme lysyl oxidase (LOX) provides stability to fibrous plaques. In this study, we aimed to measure thiol-disulfide and LOX levels in patients with PD and in a healthy population and to compare the relationships of these parameters with each other and with the disease.The samples obtained within the scope of our study were collected from patients who presented to the Urology Clinic of SBU Mehmet Akif Inan Training and Research Hospital and from healthy individuals who presented to the Platelet Apheresis Unit. A total of 28 patients with PD and 28 healthy individuals were included in the study. From the patients, 5 mL of venous blood samples were collected in the morning after at least 8 h of fasting. Thiol-disulfide parameters were analyzed using a spectrophotometric method. The LOX enzyme was examined using the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay method.A total of 56 individuals participated in our study, including 28 patients with PD and 28 controls. LOX levels were significantly higher in the PD group (p = 0.038). Native thiol (p = 0.030) and total thiol (p = 0.040) levels were significantly lower. However, no significant difference was found in terms of thiol-disulfide levels (p = 0.306).To the best of our knowledge, this study is the first in the literature to evaluate serum LOX levels in PD and their relationship with dynamic thiol-disulfide homeostasis. Our results suggest that antioxidant thiol levels and increased LOX levels may be used in the diagnosis and classification of the disease and may play a role in its etiopathogenesis. In addition, the use of LOX inhibitors and antioxidants may potentially be considered in the treatment of the disease.© 2026 American Society of Andrology and European Academy of Andrology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565912 is a review article
The present study reports the isolation and characterization of secondary metabolites from the methanolic extract of Knema malayana leaves, including five polymethoxylated flavones 3',4',5,7-tetramethoxyflavone (1), 3',4',5',5,7-pentamethoxyflavone (2), 4'-hydroxy-3',5',5,7-tetramethoxyflavone (3), 3-hydroxy-3',4',5',5,7-pentamethoxyflavone (4), and 3,3',5',5,7-pentamethoxyflavone (5). Structural elucidation was performed using 1D and 2D nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), IR, MS, and, in the case of compound (2), single-crystal X-ray diffraction. The isolated compounds were evaluated for their inhibitory activity against acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and 5-lipoxygenase (5-LOX). Among them, compound (2) exhibited the most notable dual inhibitory activity, with IC50 values of 10.2 μM (AChE) and 12.6 μM (5-LOX). Molecular docking supported these findings, with binding affinities of -10.5 kcal/mol (AChE) and -7.2 kcal/mol (5-LOX), revealing key hydrogen bonds and π-cation interactions within active site residues. Other flavonoids, particularly compounds (1) and (5), also displayed notable binding profiles. In silico absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion, and toxicity (ADMET) evaluation using the Toxometris.ai platform indicated favorable drug-likeness and safety profiles, including non-mutagenic and non-cardiotoxic predictions, along with acceptable pharmacokinetic properties such as aqueous solubility, Caco-2 permeability, plasma protein binding, and microsomal stability. These findings were further supported by promising physicochemical and medicinal chemistry properties, including quantitative estimate of drug-likeness (QED) scores ranging from 0.65 to 0.75 and the absence of pan-assay interference compounds (PAINS) alerts, among other parameters. This study highlights the therapeutic relevance of K. malayana polymethoxylated flavones as promising dual-target AChE and LOX inhibitor with favorable safety and pharmacokinetic properties, supporting their potential development for neuroinflammatory disorders.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Lipid mediators (LMs) comprise a large variety of signaling molecules that are enzymatically produced from polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) in a wide biosynthetic network. These pivotal mediators regulate all stages of inflammation, from initiation, progression, and maintenance to resolution and regain of tissue homeostasis. While leukotrienes and prostaglandins, produced from arachidonic acid (AA) by the 5-lipoxygenase (LOX) and cyclooxygenase (COX) pathways, respectively, mediate/promote inflammatory reactions and related symptoms, the specialized pro-resolving mediators (SPMs) terminate and resolve inflammation. SPMs encompass mainly the omega-3-PUFA-derived resolvins, protectins, and maresins, which are synthesized by sequential PUFA oxygenation steps, involving primarily 15-LOX-1/2 isoforms, but for some specific SPMs, also the 5-LOX, 12-LOX, COX-2, and cytochrome P450 enzymes mediate one of these oxygenations. Due to their valuable inflammation-resolving features, different strategies have been developed in order to exploit the beneficial functions of SPMs for the intervention with chronic inflammatory diseases. Here, we review the promising strategy of promoting endogenous SPM formation by applying exogenous agents that activate SPM-biosynthetic enzymes, also in combination with omega-3-PUFA supplementation, for resolution pharmacology. Results from pilot clinical trials that confirm the applicability and efficacy of such agents and their combinations in patients suffering from chronic inflammatory disorders are briefly discussed.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Anthyllis henoniana leaves and flowers were subjected to fractionated extraction using cyclohexane (CYHA), dichloromethane (DCM), ethyl acetate (EtOAc) and methanol (MeOH). The leaves-MeOH extract showed the highest yield and total polyphenol contents (TPC) compared to the flowers. The strongest antiradical activity (IC50 = 7.7 µg/mL) was recorded for the leaves compared to flowers (>50 µg/mL). The HPLC-DAD analysis showed the presence of eight and twelve bioactive compounds in the leaf and flower extracts, respectively. The flowers-CYHA extract exhibited the best anti-5-lipoxygenase (anti-5-LOX) activity (IC50 = 15 µg/mL) compared to the leaves (IC50 = 42 to 47 µg/mL). Anthyllis henoniana leaves showed greater anti-acetylcholinesterase (anti-AChE) activity than the flowers. The leaves-DCM fraction induced 60 and 70% cell growth inhibition against MCF-7 and HCT-116, respectively. Furthermore, the molecular docking investigations supported the in vitro antioxidant and anti-5-LOX patterns, revealing that the identified compounds exhibited low binding energies and interacted effectively within the novel human peroxidase (PDB:1PRX) and the crystal structure of soybean lipoxygenase-B (PDB: 2IUJ) enzymes, respectively. The obtained results indicated that the leaves-MeOH extract was the most enriched in polar compounds with high antioxidant and cytotoxic capacities, whereas the flowers-CYHA extracts accumulated nonpolar compounds of an effective anti-inflammatory capacity.© 2025 The Author(s). Chemistry & Biodiversity published by Wiley‐VHCA AG.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559655 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42557823 is a review article
Lipoxygenase proteins (LOXs) play a crucial role in plant growth, development, and defense notably through their involvement in jasmonic acid (JA) biosynthesis. Here, we aimed to identify and characterize genes encoding lipoxygenases in three coffee species, Coffea arabica, Coffea canephora, and Coffea eugenioides, and to evaluate whether LOX genes are differentially expressed following hexanoic acid application in C. arabica. We found 18 LOX genes in C. arabica and 9 genes each in C. eugenioides and C. canephora. Chromosomal localization analyses revealed strong correspondence between the LOX genes of tetraploid C. arabica and those of its putative diploid progenitors, C. eugenioides and C. canephora. Transcriptomic and enzymatic analyses showed that hexanoic acid application modulates the expression of specific LOX genes and alters lipoxygenase activity in leaves and roots of C. arabica cvs. Catuaí Vermelho and Obatã. Notably, three LOX genes displayed strong correlations between transcript abundance and enzymatic activity. Together, these results indicate that a subset of LOX genes in C. arabica represents promising candidates for detailed functional analyses, as they likely contribute substantially to lipoxygenase activity and elicitor-induced defense responses in Coffea species.
Whether to change adjuvant regimen after ineffective neoadjuvant chemotherapy in locally advanced gastric cancer (LAGC) remains unclear. We conducted an exploratory study on whether graded histologic regression (GHR) < 50% was a potential indicator for regimen modification.The study was a prospective, single-center, open-label, randomized, phase II trial. Patients were randomly assigned to group A (paclitaxel-modified regimen) and group B (original regimen) for adjuvant chemotherapy. The primary endpoint was disease-free survival (DFS), with secondary endpoints of overall survival (OS) and safety.Between May 2017 and August 2025, 58 patients with postoperative GHR < 50% were enrolled and randomly allocated to group A (n = 28) or group B (n = 30). After a median of 19.3 months follow-up, group A had longer median DFS (25.2 months versus 11.4 months) (hazard ratio [HR] 0.4711, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.2501-0.8874; P = 0.020) and median OS (32.0 months versus 18.0 months) (HR 0.5088, 95% CI 0.2667-0.9708; P = 0.040) than group B. Regimen modification was identified as independent prognostic factor for DFS and OS. In subgroup analysis, compared with ypN0-2, patients with ypN3 stage (P = 0.047) were more likely to experience OS benefits by regimen modification. Patients with ypTNM III stage (P = 0.046) had more DFS benefits from regimen alteration than ypTNM I-II. Regarding adverse events, except higher nausea incidence, chemotherapy change did not significantly increase other adverse reactions.GHR < 50% may indicate the need to adjust adjuvant chemotherapy regimen in LAGC. A larger study is needed to validate its final survival impact.© 2026. Society of Surgical Oncology.
Neanderthals had a robust build and distinctive skeletal features. The hypothalamic-pituitary-somatotropic (HPS) axis, with growth hormone (GH) as a central signaling molecule, plays a crucial role in regulating skeletal development. To explore whether Neanderthal-specific genetic variations in the HPS axis contributed to their physical robustness, we examined genes encoding the relevant receptors and hormones. We find that the Neanderthal growth hormone receptor (GHR) carried two amino acid changes and one deletion. When the Neanderthal GHR is expressed in a GH-dependent cell line, the cells proliferate faster than cells expressing the modern human GHR when stimulated by pituitary GH but not by placental GH. We also show that some present-day humans have inherited the gene encoding the Neanderthal GHR. These individuals tend to have more muscle mass and exhibit some craniofacial traits reminiscent of Neanderthals. Thus, aspects of Neanderthal anatomy live on in people today.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) treatment for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) commonly results in residual disease; however, the angiogenic features of residual tumors remain poorly defined. This study aimed to characterize vascular niche remodeling after TACE and provide a translational rationale for optimizing combination therapy.We performed single-nucleus RNA sequencing on six treatment-naive and six post-TACE HCC tumor samples. The findings were subsequently validated across five independent cohorts using multiplex immunohistochemistry, plasma biomarker assays, public transcriptomic datasets, and retrospective clinical analyses. Multiple in vivo HCC models were further used to investigate the PDGFC-PDGFR axis and evaluate low-dose anti-VEGF-A plus anti-PD-L1 therapy.Residual tumor vessels following TACE exhibited heightened angiogenic activity while remaining structurally immature, with accompanying immunosuppressive features. Integrated analyses revealed that TACE markedly reprogrammed tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) and cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) toward pro-angiogenic and immunosuppressive states. Notably, PDGFC+ TAMs acted on pericytes and CAFs to induce pericyte-to-CAF transition and activate stromal remodeling programs, thereby reinforcing a positive feedback loop linking aberrant angiogenesis and immunosuppression. More importantly, in preclinical HCC models, low-dose anti-VEGF-A plus anti-PD-L1 alleviated hypoxia, reduced PDGFC+ TAM accumulation, enhanced CD8+ T-cell immunity, and improved tumor control. Retrospective clinical analysis further supported the potential of low-dose bevacizumab plus atezolizumab to improve clinical outcomes while preserving hepatic function after TACE.This study demonstrates that TACE induces PDGFC+ TAM-mediated dysfunction of the vascular-immune microenvironment. Low-dose bevacizumab plus atezolizumab may counteract this pathological microenvironment by promoting vascular normalization and enhancing antitumor immunity, thereby representing a promising therapeutic strategy.Transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) commonly leaves residual tumors in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC); however, tumor angiogenic features in this context remain poorly defined. By integrating single-nucleus transcriptomics with multi-cohort validation, this study shows that residual tumors exhibit a hypoxic, angiogenic, and structurally immature vascular niche accompanied by immunosuppression. PDGFC+ tumor-associated macrophages emerged as a central component of this niche and may promote pericyte-to-fibroblast transition, cancer-associated fibroblast activation, and pathological angiogenesis. In preclinical HCC models, low-dose anti-VEGF-A plus anti-PD-L1 therapy alleviated hypoxia, reduced PDGFC+ macrophage accumulation, increased pericyte coverage, enhanced CD8+ T-cell immunity, and improved tumor control. Retrospective clinical analysis further suggested that low-dose bevacizumab plus atezolizumab may improve clinical outcomes while preserving hepatic function after TACE. These findings provide a translational rationale for further evaluating dose-optimized anti-angiogenic therapy plus immune checkpoint blockade in patients with HCC undergoing TACE, and may help clinicians and researchers refine combination strategies.Copyright © 2026 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Opioid use disorder (OUD) is heritable, yet most genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have focused on European populations, leaving the genetic architecture of OUD in non- European populations underexplored.We conducted GWAS of OUD across three ancestries using electronic health records and genomic data from 52,357 All of Us Research Program participants (8,912 cases; 43,445 matched opioid-exposed controls; 48.5% female). Participants were stratified into European (EUR), African (AFR), and Admixed American (AMR) ancestry groups for logistic regression GWAS, with independent replication in the Million Veteran Program. We then applied the deep- learning model AlphaGenome to predict the tissue-specific transcriptomic and splicing consequences of top risk variants across 13 reward-pathway brain regions.We identified and replicated a novel DDX6 risk locus, alongside established OPRM1 and FURIN signals. AlphaGenome predicted the DDX6 regulatory allele downregulates the stress-resistance gene FOXR1 in the nucleus accumbens, while the protective OPRM1 variant (rs1799971) upregulates OPRM1 expression across reward networks. Other signals of interest included IL6R and SHISA9 (EUR); GHR (AFR); and ASTN2 (AMR).This study identifies DDX6 as a novel OUD risk locus, replicates associations with OPRM1 and FURIN , and highlights biologically plausible ancestry-specific signals in AFR and AMR populations. We also replicated top variants in an independent population. Finally, integrating GWAS with deep-learning annotations provides specific, localized biological hypotheses to guide future experimental validation and targeted therapeutics.
The Mediterranean diet is associated with reduced cardiometabolic risk, yet its physiological effects during pregnancy and its impact on placental metabolism remain incompletely understood. This study aimed to determine whether maternal adherence to a Mediterranean diet during pregnancy influences placental lipid metabolism and signalling pathways involved in nutrient handling, tissue remodelling, and inflammation, and to assess their relationship with pregnancy outcomes. Placental samples and clinical outcome data were analysed from pregnant women participating in an unblinded randomized clinical trial of a Mediterranean diet intervention. Placental fatty acid composition was quantified, and the expression of genes and signalling pathways involved in lipid metabolism, nutrient transport, inflammation, and tissue remodelling was evaluated. Maternal adherence to a Mediterranean diet during pregnancy was associated with significant alterations in placental fatty acid composition, including reduced C18:0 and C24:0 and increased C18:1n9c, C20:3n6, and C22:0, with lower total saturated fatty acids and higher monounsaturated fatty acids. Placental expression of lipid metabolism regulators ALOX15 and PPARγ was reduced, alongside downregulation of AKT and p38 MAPK signalling pathways. Placentas from mothers adhering to the Mediterranean diet also showed lower expression of amino acid and glucose transporters SLC3A2 and SLC2A1, as well as altered inflammatory and extracellular matrix remodelling markers, including decreased SOCS3 and GHR and increased PAI1 and MMP3. Maternal adherence to a Mediterranean diet during pregnancy modifies placental fatty acid composition and regulates pathways involved in lipid handling, nutrient transport, inflammation, and tissue remodelling, providing insight into mechanisms linking maternal diet with placental metabolic function.© 2026. The Author(s).
Locally produced nonpituitary growth hormone (npGH) promotes DNA damage accumulation and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in aging human colon epithelium. GH receptor (GHR) and npGH are expressed in normal human prostate and benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) prevalence increases with age. We hypothesized that local prostate GH action may promote EMT and contribute to BPH pathogenesis. We show here that the number of patients expressing npGH increases >10-fold after age 60, concordant with increased γH2AX, a marker of DNA damage, and EMT activation. GH-treated human primary prostate epithelial cells, normal prostate cells, and primary cell cultures derived from resected BPH specimens exhibited enhanced DNA damage and activated EMT, with induced TWIST2 and suppressed E-cadherin, as well as increased Ki67, cell motility, and proliferation. In mice, prostate tissue adjacent to allografted GH-expressing fibroblasts showed increased γH2AX, TWIST2, and Ki67 compared to controls, along with morphological changes consistent with BPH. While GH and GH-induced IGF-1 both activated EMT, GH triggered DNA damage independent of IGF-1. These results elucidate a novel role for local npGH in aging prostate tissue, whereby npGH increases DNA damage and promotes EMT to enable a microenvironment favoring BPH development. Prostate GHR signaling may be an attractive therapeutic target for BPH.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is highly heterogeneous and develops due to the accumulation of genetic and epigenetic alterations. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are involved in various aspects of CRC, such as epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), proliferation, migration, and metastasis. However, the complex mechanisms involved remain incompletely understood. This study identifies CRC-related differentially expressed miRNAs (with a focus on miR- 34c-5p), verifies its target, and explores the regulatory mechanism of halofuginone (HF) in CRC via the miR-34c-5p/MAP2K1 axis.MiRNA sequencing (miRNA-Seq) identified differentially expressed miRNAs, which were verified by real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR). miR-34c-5p expression was detected in HCT-15 cells and normal human primary colon epithelial cells; its effects on CRC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion were assessed in vitro and in vivo. Target prediction combined with dual-luciferase reporter assays validated the direct target of miR-34c-5p. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was performed to analyse MAP2K1 expression in clinical samples and its correlation with the severity of precancerous lesions. The effect of HF on CRC via the miR-34c- 5p/MAP2K1 axis was examined in vitro and in vivo.MiR-34c-5p was downregulated in HCT-15 cells compared with normal human primary colon epithelial cells and inhibited the malignant behaviours of CRC cells in vitro and in vivo. MAP2K1 was confirmed as the direct target of miR-34c-5p. MAP2K1 expression was positively correlated with the severity of colorectal precancerous lesions. HF suppressed CRC progression by regulating the miR-34c-5p/MAP2K1 axis in vitro and in vivo.This study reveals that miR-34c-5p targets MAP2K1 to suppress colorectal cancer progression. HF upregulates miR-34c-5p and downregulates MAP2K1, exerting antitumour effects. The miR-34c-5p/MAP2K1 axis serves as a promising therapeutic target for CRC.Taken together, our study revealed that the miR-34c-5p/MAP2K1 axis is involved in the development and progression of human CRC and may provide novel insights into the prevention and treatment of CRC. This work also provides a brief overview of several recently issued patents.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
With recent advances in high-throughput proteomic technologies, population-scale plasma proteomics datasets, often linked to extensive genetic and phenotypic information, have become increasingly accessible. Yet the relationships between circulating protein levels, brain imaging phenotypes, and risk for neurological and psychiatric disorders remain largely unexplored. Proteome-wide association studies offer a promising approach for elucidating biological mechanisms that connect genetic variation to complex brain-related traits and diseases. In this study, we integrated protein quantitative trait loci (pQTLs) from the two largest plasma proteomic resources (the UK Biobank Pharma Proteomics Project [UKB-PPP] and Ferkingstad et al. [deCODE]) with genome-wide association studies of brain imaging-derived phenotypes in UK Biobank using Mendelian randomization and colocalization analyses. We identified 120 cis and 20 trans associations between plasma proteins and imaging phenotypes and validated these findings using brain tissue-derived proteomic and transcriptomic datasets. Multivariable Mendelian randomization revealed eleven plasma proteins (coding genes APOE, ARL3, MICB, NSF, RHOC, RSPO3, ENPP2, BTN2A1, EIF2AK3, MRVI1, and OPLAH ) with significant direct effects on the risk of Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia. Single-cell expression and pathway enrichment analyses further revealed cell-type-specific effects and distinct biological processes underlying these protein- disease associations. Together, these findings demonstrate robust links between plasma protein variation and brain structure, delineate protein-disease pathways, and highlight the cellular and molecular mechanisms that contribute to neurobiological diversity and pathology.
To examine whether SLC31A1 knockdown protects human retinal microvascular endothelial cells (HRMECs) exposed to high glucose and copper.HRMECs were exposed to normal glucose (5 mmol/L) or high glucose (30 mmol/L), with or without 50 µmol/L CuSO4 during the final 6h, and transfected with control or SLC31A1 small interfering RNA. Cell viability (cell counting kit-8) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) content were measured. Oxidative stress was assessed by glutathione/oxidized glutathione ratio, malondialdehyde, superoxide dismutase, catalase, and reactive oxygen species. Intracellular copper and mRNA levels of SLC31A1, ferredoxin 1, lipoic acid synthetase, dihydrolipoamide S-acetyltransferase (DLAT), and tight junction genes were quantified. SLC31A1 protein and lipoylated DLAT were detected by Western blotting. Endothelial barrier function was evaluated by fluorescein isothiocyanate-dextran permeability and transendothelial electrical resistance.High glucose alone caused modest loss of viability, ATP depletion, increased oxidative stress, downregulation of tight junction genes, and mild barrier impairment, with minimal additional effect of SLC31A1 knockdown. Copper supplementation under high glucose induced marked intracellular copper overload, enhanced DLAT lipoylation, severe ATP loss, oxidative injury, and pronounced barrier dysfunction. SLC31A1 knockdown significantly reduced copper accumulation, lipoylation of DLAT, and oxidative stress, preserved ATP and viability, and partially restored tight junction gene expression and barrier function, although none of these parameters returned to normal glucose levels.SLC31A1-dependent copper influx appears to contribute to cuproptosis-associated mitochondrial energy failure, oxidative stress, and barrier breakdown in high glucose-exposed retinal endothelial cells, indicating that SLC31A1 may represent a potential therapeutic target for diabetic retinal microvascular protection.International Journal of Ophthalmology Press.
Background: Pathogenic variants in genes that cause skeletal dysplasias may, instead of producing classic findings, present in children with a phenotype whose hip radiographs resemble bilateral Legg-Calvé-Perthes disease (LCPD). Objectives: This study aims to investigate the efficacy of genetic diagnosis in children with waddling gait or joint pain and radiological evidence of hip dysplasia mimicking bilateral LCPD. Methods: Forty children with bilateral femoral head dysplasia from 36 families were included in the study. Exome sequencing was performed, and all identified variants were confirmed within the families by Sanger sequencing. Results: Twelve pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants were identified: six in COL2A1, two in COL9A1, and one each in RPL13, EIF2AK3, DNAJC21, and ARSK; six are novel. The diagnostic yield was 33.3% (12/36) in 12 families. Additionally, variants of uncertain significance (VUS), proposed as causative, were detected in five families (5/36:13.9%): two in COL11A1 and one each in COL9A3, COL11A2, and ARSK. Based on bilateral epiphyseal dysplasia of the femoral head, it was observed that seven families may be compatible with mild spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia and six families may have Stickler syndrome. Notably, among these, three children carrying closely localized pathogenic/likely pathogenic variants in COL2A1 shared a novel phenotype characterized by short stature and bilateral irregular femoral heads. In four families, EIF2AK3, DNAJC21, and ARSK were also responsible for the ultra-rare disorders Wolcott-Rallison syndrome, bone marrow failure syndrome 3, and mucopolysaccharidosis 10, respectively. Conclusions: This study, for the first time, investigated the frequency of associated genes in a pediatric cohort with bilateral hip dysplasia resembling LCPD, providing important information for pathogenesis and differential diagnosis.
Monogenic diabetes mellitus (MDM) comprises a heterogeneous group of rare disorders caused by single-gene defects. Data from highly consanguineous Middle Eastern populations remain scarce, which limits the application of precision medicine in these regions.To characterize the genetic spectrum, clinical features, and inheritance patterns of MDM within a large Saudi Arabian cohort.Exome sequencing (ES) and clinical analysis were conducted for 135 Saudi patients from 86 unrelated families. Variants were classified according to ACMG guidelines.The cohort (52.6% male) exhibited a high consanguinity rate of 81%. A molecular diagnosis (Pathogenic/likely pathogenic) was achieved in 73% of families, with autosomal recessive inheritance predominating. Variant of uncertain significance (VUS) accounted for 15% of families. Leading clinical subtypes included MODY (33.3%), syndromic diabetes (27.4%), and permanent neonatal diabetes (23.7%). The most frequently implicated genes were INSR (13%), EIF2AK3 (12%), INS (11%), and GCK (11%). Furthermore, seven novel variants were identified.MDM in Saudi Arabia is characterized by a high burden of autosomal recessive forms, including neonatal and syndromic diabetes, reflecting population structure and consanguinity. These findings highlight the importance of early genetic testing to guide management and genetic counseling.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a fatal interstitial lung disease, and currently, there are no effective means to reverse its progression. Cuproptosis is a newly discovered copper-dependent programmed cell death mechanism, but its role in IPF remains unknown. This study aimed to investigate whether Cuproptosis is involved in the pathogenesis of IPF and to evaluate its potential as a therapeutic target.In vitro, a fibrosis model was induced in human lung epithelial cells by bleomycin treatment. In vivo, a C57BL/6J mouse IPF model was established by intratracheal instillation of bleomycin. The effects on fibrosis progression were observed using the Cuproptosis inhibitor ammonium tetrathiomolybdate and siRNA knockdown of the copper ion transporter Slc31a1.Significant Cuproptosis was observed in both BLM-induced lung epithelial cells and mouse lung tissue. Gene expression profiling identified key Cuproptosis-related genes, including Slc31a1. Pharmacological inhibition of Cuproptosis effectively reversed the Cuproptosis process in both in vitro and in vivo models and significantly reduced fibrotic pathological changes. At the cellular level, knockdown of Slc31a1 mimics the protective effect of TTM; however, its efficacy in whole animal models is limited.This study identifies cuproptosis as a significant contributor to the pathogenesis of pulmonary fibrosis. Pharmacological inhibition of this pathway alleviates disease phenotypes, supporting the feasibility of targeting copper metabolism.
Cuproptosis is a newly discovered form of programmed cell death that offers a new perspective on glioma treatment. However, the clinical impacts of CuproptosisRelated Genes (CRGs) in glioma remain largely unclear. This study aimed to investigate the role and biological significance of CRGs in glioma.The current study included 1573 glioma patients (603 from TCGA and 970 from the CGGA database) with clinicopathological information and mRNA sequencing data. The most relevant gene, SLC31A1, was identified among 16 CRGs through a series of approaches. Functional gene annotation was performed using GO, KEGG, and GSVA. Furthermore, correlations between CRGs and immune cell infiltration were analyzed by ESTIMATE and CIBERSORT algorithms. Single-cell RNA sequencing databases were used to verify the infiltration of M2 macrophages. Lastly, in vitro functional experiments were performed to assess the knockdown effects of SLC31A1 expression on the proliferation and invasion of glioma cells. Transcriptome sequencing of SLC31A1 knockdown cell lines was used to validate the functional enrichment analysis results. Mass spectrometry analysis was used to validate the protein-protein interactions. Immunofluorescence staining was used to co-localize the target protein with PD-L1, and the gene expression level was verified by immunohistochemistry.Among the 16 CRGs, SLC31A1 was highly expressed and had the most important prognostic value. The expression of SLC31A1 increased with the degree of malignancy in glioma. SLC31A1 is an independent prognostic factor for gliomas, and an SLC31A1-based prognostic nomogram can reasonably predict the survival of patients. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that SLC31A1 co-expressed genes are mainly involved in immune and metabolismrelated signaling pathways. CIBERSORT analysis revealed that M2 macrophage cells increased with increasing SLC31A1 expression. SLC31A1 was closely associated with immune checkpoints PD-L1 and TIM3. Knockdown of SLC31A1 in glioma cells decreased cellular proliferation, migration, and invasion in vitro.The strong correlation between SLC31A1 and M2 macrophage infiltration, coupled with its interaction with immune checkpoints, suggests that SLC31A1 mediates tumor progression by modulating the immunosuppressive microenvironment. These findings indicate that SLC31A1 is not only a copper transporter but also a key regulator of immune evasion in glioma.This study provides basic evidence that regulating cellular copper levels by targeting SLC31A1 is a feasible and patented therapeutic strategy. The high expression of SLC31A1 could promote the infiltration of M2 macrophages in glioma.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
To investigate the regulatory effect and mechanism of nuclear fragile X mental retardation-interacting protein 1 (NUFIP1) on the apoptosis of dendritic cells (DCs) in septic mice.Nufip1+/- C57BL/6J mice were generated, and Western blotting was performed to verify the protein expression level of NUFIP1 in splenic DCs. A total of 48 SPF male wild-type (WT) mice and Nufip1+/- mice were divided into the sham group (18 mice) and the sepsis group (30 mice). Three independent replicate experiments were conducted, and mice were grouped using a random number table in each trial. The cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) procedure was performed to establish the sepsis model in the sepsis group; mice in the Sham group only underwent laparotomy and cecal separation without ligation. Twenty-four hours after operation, orbital blood was collected. The mice were then sacrificed, and heart, lung, liver, kidney tissues as well as spleens were harvested for isolation and extraction of splenic DCs. Flow cytometry was applied to detect the apoptosis rate of splenic DCs. Western blotting was used to determine the protein expression levels of apoptosis-related proteins including caspase-3, Bcl-2, heat shock protein 5 (HSPA5), eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 alpha kinase 3 (EIF2AK3), phosphorylated EIF2AK3 (p-EIF2AK3), eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2A (EIF2A), phosphorylated EIF2A (p-EIF2A), activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4) and DNA damage-inducible transcript 3 protein (DDIT3) in splenic DCs. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was adopted to detect the serum levels of interleukins (IL-2, IL-4, IL-10), transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) and interferon-γ (IFN-γ). Hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining was performed to observe the injury of heart, lung, liver and kidney under light microscope. The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) morphology of splenic DCs was observed under a laser confocal microscope. An additional 20 WT mice and 20 Nufip1+/- mice were respectively assigned to the sham group and sepsis group, with 10 animals in each subgroup. The 7-day survival rate after CLP was observed in all groups.Western blotting results showed that the protein expression level of NUFIP1 in splenic DCs of Nufip1+/- mice was lower than that of WT mice (NUFIP1/β-actin: 1.080±0.233 vs. 2.178±0.440, P<0.05), indicating the successful construction of NUFIP1 gene-deficient mice. Flow cytometry results revealed that the apoptosis rate of splenic DCs at 24 h after CLP in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group was higher than that in the WT sepsis group [(43.41±1.70)% vs. (30.43±4.99)%, P<0.05]. Meanwhile, compared with the WT sepsis group, the protein expression level of caspase-3 in splenic DCs was increased, while the protein expression level of Bcl-2 was decreased in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group (caspase-3/β-actin: 1.23±0.17 vs. 0.59±0.14, Bcl-2/β-actin: 0.46±0.13 vs. 0.72±0.08, all P<0.05). Compared with the WT sepsis group, the serum levels of IL-2 and IFN-γ in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group were decreased [IL-2 (ng/L): 8.54±0.27 vs. 209.70±1.56; IFN-γ (ng/L): 391.60±9.24 vs. 512.70±31.50, all P<0.05], whereas the serum levels of IL-4, IL-10 and TGF-β were increased [IL-4 (ng/L): 73.19±2.38 vs. 28.52±0.98; IL-10 (ng/L): 359.20±2.02 vs. 267.60±5.05; TGF-β (ng/L): 826.20±26.73 vs. 497.30±3.33, all P<0.05], and the IFN-γ/IL-4 ratio was decreased (7.98±0.46 vs. 16.59±0.40, P<0.05). These findings suggested that peripheral immunosuppression was further aggravated in Nufip1+/- mice during sepsis relative to WT mice. HE staining demonstrated that the injury of heart, lung, liver, kidney and other tissues in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group was markedly severer than that in the WT sepsis group, and the 7-day survival rate was lower in Nufip1+/- mice [20% (2/10) vs. 50% (5/10), P<0.05). Compared with the WT sepsis group, the protein expression levels of HSPA5, the ratio of p-EIF2AK3 to EIF2AK3, the ratio of p-EIF2A to EIF2A, ATF4 and DDIT3 in splenic DCs after CLP were all up-regulated in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group (HSPA5/β-actin: 0.93±0.38 vs. 0.34±0.02, p-EIF2AK3/EIF2AK3 ratio: 1.67±0.28 vs. 0.59±0.05, p-EIF2A/EIF2A ratio: 0.90±0.09 vs. 0.61±0.08, ATF4/β-actin: 1.71±0.77 vs. 1.60±0.48, DDIT3/β-actin: 1.18±0.12 vs. 0.56±0.34, all P<0.05). Laser confocal microscopy showed that the morphological changes of ER in splenic DCs of the Nufip1+/- sepsis group were more obvious than those in the WT sepsis group, presenting irregular distortion, swelling and fragmentation.NUFIP1 gene deficiency induces extensive apoptosis of splenic DCs in the early stage of sepsis, further aggravate peripheral immunosuppression, exacerbate multiple organ damage and worsen survival outcomes in septic animals.
Colorectal cancer remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality, with resistance to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) posing a major therapeutic challenge. Thymoquinone (TQ), a bioactive compound derived from Nigella sativa, exhibits anticancer activity; however, its system-level effects in colorectal cancer are not fully understood.RKO colorectal cancer cells were treated with TQ, 5-FU, or their combination for 24 h, followed by genome-wide transcriptomic profiling using oligonucleotide microarrays. Drug interaction effects were assessed using a deviation-from-additivity model. Selected genes were validated by RT-qPCR and Western blotting, and functional relevance was evaluated using bioinformatics analyses.Combined treatment induced extensive network-level reprogramming of pathways associated with apoptosis, cellular stress response, and proliferation. Although no classical transcriptional synergy was observed, the interaction between TQ and 5-FU resulted in coordinated modulation of overlapping signaling networks. Key regulatory genes, including FAS and CYLD, were linked to enhanced pro-apoptotic signaling, whereas BIRC3 and EIF2AK3 were associated with adaptive or resistance-related responses.TQ acts as a context-dependent modulator of chemotherapy response, reshaping cell death and stress-related signaling networks rather than directly enhancing cytotoxicity. These findings highlight the potential of TQ to influence therapeutic responses in fluoropyrimidine-based treatment of colorectal cancer and support further functional and in vivo validation.Copyright © 2026 Kurowska, Kruszniewska-Rajs and Strzałka-Mrozik.
Copper is essential for neurological function, and its transport across the blood-brain barrier (BBB) is mediated by the copper transporter CTR1. Via CTR1, copper enters endothelial cells at the BBB and is transported into astrocytes and neurons. Although critical for homeostasis, copper distribution varies across brain regions and within cells. Knockdown of CTR1 causes developmental defects, highlighting its significance. This study examined CTR1 localization in human postmortem hippocampus and striatum. Postmortem brain samples from unaffected individuals were analyzed using immunohistochemistry, in situ hybridization, and ultrastructural electron microscopy (EM). Immunolabeling was observed in putative endothelial-like, astrocytic-like and oligodendroglial-likeprofiles, pyramidal neurons, and bipolar-appearing interneuronal profiles. Multiplex fluorescent in situ hybridization demonstrated SLC31A1 mRNA signal in neuronal, vascular-associated, and glial-associated cellular populations corresponding to those identified by immunohistochemistry. Using ultrastructural EM, CTR1-associated labeling was observed in axon terminals forming asymmetric synapses in the hippocampus and striatum, including labeling adjacent to vesicular structures. Additionally, CTR1-associated labeling was observed adjacent to mitochondrial profiles in both regions. These findings provide descriptive baseline data on CTR1 localization in human brain and may inform future studies of copper transport in health and disease. disorders.© 2026. The Author(s).
Estrogen deficiency-induced osteoporosis is largely driven by excessive osteoclast formation and bone resorption, but the direct pharmacological targets of flavonoid derivatives in osteoclast differentiation remain unclear. Here, we investigated the anti-osteoclastogenic activity and molecular mechanism of 2'-O-Galloylhyperin (2'-O-GH), a structurally defined flavonoid derivative. The effects of 2'-O-GH on RANKL-induced osteoclastogenesis were evaluated in bone marrow-derived macrophages and RAW264.7 cells using TRAP staining, qPCR, western blotting, F-actin staining, immunofluorescence, and bone resorption assays. Target identification was performed using a biotinylated 2'-O-GH probe coupled with pull-down and LC-MS/MS analysis, followed by molecular docking and microscale thermophoresis. In vivo efficacy was assessed in an ovariectomy-induced osteoporosis mouse model. 2'-O-GH inhibited RANKL-induced formation of TRAP-positive multinucleated osteoclasts without evident cytotoxicity at effective concentrations. It downregulated osteoclast-related markers, including NFATc1, c-FOS, SRC, ACP5, ATP6V0D2, and CTSK, and impaired F-actin ring formation and bone resorption. Mechanistically, 2'-O-GH restrained RANKL-induced NF-κB p65 nuclear translocation. Chemical proteomics identified MAP3K11/MLK3 as a candidate target, and molecular docking and microscale thermophoresis supported its direct interaction with 2'-O-GH. 2'-O-GH further suppressed RANKL-induced phosphorylation of MLK3 and IKKα/β, whereas MLK3 overexpression partially rescued NF-κB activation and osteoclast differentiation. In ovariectomized mice, 2'-O-GH attenuated bone loss without obvious effects on body or uterine weight. These findings identify MLK3 as a pharmacological target of 2'-O-GH and suggest that 2'-O-GH suppresses osteoclastogenesis through the MLK3/IKK/NF-κB axis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Myocardial fibrosis (MF) is a pathological process often triggered by chronic inflammation and pressure overload. This study aimed to investigate the therapeutic potential of ranitidine, a histamine H2 receptor antagonist, on MF and explore its underlying mechanisms, focusing on the FAK/Src pathway and inflammatory responses.A mouse model of MF was established by transverse aortic constriction (TAC). Cardiac function was assessed by echocardiography. Histopathological changes, collagen deposition, mast cell infiltration, and the expression of histamine and its H2 receptor were examined. In vitro, NIH/3T3 fibroblasts were stimulated with TGF-β1 to induce fibrotic activation. The effects of ranitidine on collagen synthesis, the expression of fibrotic markers (α-SMA, Collagen I/III), and the phosphorylation of FAK/Src were evaluated.Ranitidine treatment significantly improved TAC-induced cardiac dysfunction and attenuated myocardial fibrosis, as evidenced by reduced collagen deposition. It also markedly decreased mast cell infiltration and the expression of histamine and H2 receptor in cardiac tissues. In TGF-β1-stimulated fibroblasts, ranitidine dose-dependently reduced collagen synthesis, downregulated α-SMA, Collagen I, and Collagen III expression, and suppressed the activation of the FAK/Src pathway.Our findings demonstrate that ranitidine ameliorates pressure overload-induced myocardial fibrosis, likely in association with attenuation of histamine/H2 receptor-related inflammatory responses and reduced FAK/Src activation. This study suggests the repurposing potential of ranitidine for treating MF.Copyright © 2026 Yang, Zhang, Zhao, He, Zheng, Chen, Hu, Long and Chen.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS), the most common inherited form of intellectual disability and the leading monogenic cause of autism, results from the loss of the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). Dysregulated translation of FMRP target mRNAs is believed to underlie the aberrant synaptic plasticity observed in FXS. Identification of these targets is critical for elucidating disease mechanisms and developing therapeutic strategies.We confirmed the interaction between FMRP and FYN mRNA by RNA immunoprecipitation in HEK293 and SH-SY5Y cells and assessed FYN translational regulation via polyribosome profiling in FXS and control lymphoblastoid cells. The role of FYN in ERK hyperactivation was examined in FXS lymphoblastoid cells, FMR1-knockdown SH-SY5Y cells, and dfmr1 mutant flies. Additionally, we tested whether reducing or inhibiting Src64B, a Drosophila Src family kinase with homology to human FYN, could rescue neural and behavioral defects in dfmr1 mutants.FMRP bound to FYN mRNA and suppressed its translation without affecting mRNA stability. Phosphorylated ERK1/2 levels were markedly elevated in FXS lymphoblastoid cells, and this hyperactivation was largely reversed by either the Src family kinase inhibitor PP2 or siRNA-mediated FYN knockdown, supporting an important role for FYN in ERK1/2 dysregulation. Similar changes were observed in FMR1-knockdown SH-SY5Y cells, with increased FYN expression and ERK1/2 phosphorylation, and PP2 treatment attenuated the abnormal ERK1/2 phosphorylation. Furthermore, genetic or pharmacological suppression of Src64B restored ERK signaling and rescued mushroom body defects and memory deficits in dfmr1 mutants.This study identifies FYN as a novel translational target of FMRP and suggests that its upregulation may contribute to hyperactivation of ERK1/2 signaling in FXS.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Tissue regeneration after injury is crucial for restoring epithelial structure and function. Upon damage, a regenerative microenvironment forms that provides signalling cues that stimulate stem cell proliferation to replace lost cells. While this process is well understood, how stem cells themselves sense damage, translate this input into their proliferation and shape the regenerative microenvironment remains unclear. Here we show that Draper-Src-Shark signalling in Drosophila intestinal stem cells (ISCs) recognises tissue damage by sensing externalised phosphatidylserine on dying midgut epithelial cells and is required for STAT activation in ISCs to promote their proliferation. Unlike its role in phagocytosis, Draper in ISCs does not promote the clearance of these apoptotic enterocytes but rather facilitates ISC proliferation in the presence of damaged enterocytes. Moreover, Draper-Src-Shark signalling in progenitors regulates STAT transcriptional activity in the adjacent visceral muscle, indicating that progenitors can shape the regenerative microenvironment beyond tissue boundaries. As Src and STAT are also activated in the mammalian intestinal epithelium after damage and tumour formation, these findings may help develop therapies for tissue regeneration, inflammatory diseases and cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42556071 is a review article
Preeclampsia (PE) is a complication of pregnancy characterized by hypertension, with limited therapeutic options and variable treatment response. Identifying novel drug targets is urgently needed.We performed Mendelian randomization (MR) to explore potential drug targets for PE using data from the UK Biobank (nCase = 184, nControl = 361,010) and the FinnGen database (nCase = 7,377, nControl = 211,957). Genetic instruments for pQTLs were obtained from five proteomic studies. Bayesian colocalization analysis and summary-data-based MR (SMR) analysis were performed to assess the causal relationship between two related signals (protein levels and PE risk). We further conducted single-cell type expression analysis and phenome-wide MR. In addition, a protein-protein interaction network of key genes was constructed via the GeneMANIA website.At a significance level of p < 5 × 10-8, MR analysis revealed seven protein-PE pairs. Gene prediction indicated that KDEL (Lys-Asp-Glu-Leu) Containing 2 and Keratin 18 (KRT18) were positively correlated with the risk of PE, whereas the other five proteins (Complement Factor B [CFB], FYN Proto-Oncogene [FYN], RAN Binding Protein 1 [RANBP1], Amphoterin-Induced Gene and ORF 1 [AMIGO1], and Arginase 2 [ARG2]) were negatively correlated. None of the five proteins had reverse causality. Bayesian colocalization analysis verified the positive correlation of CFB (coloc.coloc.susie PPH4 = 1) and KRT18 (coloc.coloc.abf PPH4 = 0.74) with PE. The genes encoding the proteins KRT18, FYN, ARG2, and RANBP1 were distributed in specific cell types within PE tissues from patients with PE. Moreover, the examination of single-cell localization provided insights into the extensive distribution of the KRT18 gene, which is highly expressed in the villous cytotrophoblast (VCT) and extravillous trophoblast (EVT) populations.Our MR analysis suggested that the plasma proteins KRT18, FYN, RANBP1, AMIGO1, and ARG2 had causal effects on PE risk. These findings indicated that these five proteins might be promising druggable targets for PE and warrant further clinical therapy, especially KRT18.© The Author(s) 2026.
Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) has been an anti-cancer protein target for three decades due to its over-activation in various cancers; however, direct STAT3 inhibitors have not reached the market. In this study, a series of novel hydrazone derivatives were designed, synthesized, and characterized. The most promising compound P42 was found to selectively target the STAT3 SH2 domain over the DNA-binding domain, as suggested by the results from fluorescence polarization assays. The GI50 values after 72 h of P42 treatment were determined to be 0.85-5 μM in STAT3-overexpressing pancreatic and colorectal cancer cell lines harboring KRAS mutations (MIA PaCa-2, DLD-1 and HCT 116). Western blot analyses showed that P42 significantly inhibited phosphorylated STAT3 levels without affecting total STAT3 and its upstream kinases JAK2 and SRC. P42 demonstrated significant autophagy-associated cell death rather than apoptosis or necrosis in flow cytometry analyses, with increases in LC3II/I ratios and decreases in p62 levels. Cancer stemness potential was significantly abrogated with P42 as shown in colony formation assay and decreases in epithelial-mesenchymal transition/stemness markers SNAIL and ZEB1 levels. Molecular docking further supported a plausible binding mode within the STAT3 SH2 domain for P42, and SwissADME prediction suggested its favorable drug-likeness properties. Taken together, P42 warrants future anti-cancer drug development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
By identifying which factors impact the physical function outcomes of pain therapies, health care providers can more effectively match therapies to individuals. This approach will ultimately improve the overall quality of pain management for diverse patient populations.The objective of this study was to test the following research question: Does the effectiveness of complementary and integrative health (CIH) versus standard rehabilitative care (SRC) in improving physical function differ on the basis of participant characteristics?The study design was a moderator analysis of data collected during a pragmatic clinical trial using a sequential multiple assignment randomized trial design.The setting was an interdisciplinary pain management center at a military medical center.The participants were a complete case sample of 249 active-duty service members with chronic pain.The interventions included a 3-week program of CIH therapies, consisting of twice-weekly chiropractic, acupuncture, yoga, and massage therapies, as well as a 3-week program of SRC, consisting of twice-weekly physical and occupational therapies.Functional measure t scores were calculated from a treadmill, lift, and carry battery.Multiple linear regression models showed that the effect of CIH versus SRC on the functional performance measure was moderated by race, pain impact, pain catastrophizing, and satisfaction with social roles.CIH interventions may be most effective for individuals who are non-Hispanic White, and SRC interventions may be more effective for individuals who are non-Hispanic Black. Psychosocial factors that may improve intervention effectiveness include lower baseline pain impact and pain catastrophizing and higher satisfaction with social roles.This research underscores the importance of tailoring interventions to the individual. By considering individuals' demographics as well as their psychological and social factors, health care providers can more effectively match individuals with the most appropriate treatment approach, ultimately improving outcomes across multiple dimensions of physical function.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Physical Therapy Association. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is an aggressive malignancy with limited therapeutic options, driven in part by its immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME). Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) and neutrophils (TANs) contribute to tumor progression and immune evasion. A Disintegrin and Metalloproteinase 8 (ADAM8), a zinc-dependent protease, is strongly upregulated in PDAC and correlates with poor clinical outcomes, suggesting a regulatory role in tumor progression.Wild-type (WT) and Adam8 knockout (A8KO) PDAC cell lines were generated using the CRISPR-Cas9 technique, and PDAC mouse models with or without Adam8 expression were established to investigate the role of ADAM8 in tumor and immune cells. In vitro assays, including Western blotting, qPCR, migration and invasion assays, proliferation assays, ELISA, cytokine and proteome analyses, as well as co-culture experiments with PDAC cells and either macrophages or neutrophils, were employed to assess the effects of ADAM8 on tumor-immune cell crosstalk. In parallel, in vivo WT and A8KO KPC models were generated, genotyped, and monitored to evaluate the impact of ADAM8 on survival, tumor growth, and immune cell recruitment within the PDAC TME.ADAM8 deletion reduced tumor cell proliferation and migration, associated with reduced activation of FAK/Src/STAT3 signaling and altered secretion of cytokines including GM-CSF, M-CSF, ICAM-1, and TNF-α. Co-culture assays demonstrated that ADAM8 enhanced reciprocal signaling between tumor cells and TAMs/TANs, promoting pro-oncogenic activation. Migration assays and in vivo analyses revealed that ADAM8 facilitated recruitment of macrophages and neutrophils in PDAC TME, while Adam8KO tumors exhibited reduced immune infiltration and altered macrophage polarization.Our findings demonstrate that ADAM8 promotes PDAC aggressiveness by enhancing tumor cell proliferation and migration, activating FAK/Src/STAT3 signaling, and driving macrophage and neutrophil recruitment through cytokine regulation. By orchestrating both tumor-intrinsic pathways and tumor-immune interactions, ADAM8 emerges as a key determinant of PDAC progression and a systemic target for therapeutic intervention.© 2026. The Author(s).
The unfolded protein response (UPR) preserves endoplasmic reticulum proteostasis through coordinated signaling pathways, including the IRE1α-XBP1 axis, which promotes adaptive transcriptional programs via noncanonical XBP1 mRNA splicing. However, upstream mechanisms regulating this pathway remain incompletely defined. Here, we apply CRASP-seq, a scalable RNA-coupled CRISPR screening platform, to systematically identify regulators of XBP1 splicing. We uncovered the U2 snRNP auxiliary factor RBM39 as a critical positive regulator of this process. Perturbation of RBM39 or U2 snRNP components induces alternative splicing of ERN1, leading to exon-18 skipping and the production of an unstable transcript subject to nonsense-mediated decay, as well as a truncated IRE1α isoform that acts in a dominant-negative manner to suppress XBP1 splicing. Mechanistically, we show that heat shock reduces RBM39 functional activity and promotes ERN1 exon-18 skipping, thereby attenuating IRE1α-XBP1 signaling. Functionally, hyperactivation of this pathway is detrimental under proteotoxic stress, suggesting that exon-18 skipping serves as a stress-adaptive mechanism to limit UPR output. Together, our findings reveal a previously unrecognized regulatory axis linking the canonical splicing machinery to UPR signaling and establish alternative splicing of ERN1 as a key modulator of cellular stress responses.Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563691 is a review article
Influenza A virus (IAV) remains a major global health threat due to its high mutation rate and the emergence of antiviral resistance. Targeting host factors provides an alternative therapeutic strategy to overcome these challenges. Previous studies have shown that the L-type calcium channel Cav1.2 was implicated in viral infections. In this study, we aimed to clarify the mechanism by which Cav1.2 acts as a critical host factor mediating IAV infection, using the dihydropyridine-type calcium channel blocker nisoldipine. Nisoldipine showed notable antiviral activity in both in vitro and in vivo models. Mechanistically, nisoldipine inhibited IAV internalization by targeting Cav1.2, thereby suppressing calcium-dependent activation of the Ras-PI3K-AKT, RhoA-ROCK, and JNK pathways associated with viral internalization. Moreover, nisoldipine modulated the unfolded protein response (UPR) in host cells by promoting adaptive XBP1 splicing and contributed to the maintenance of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) homeostasis during IAV infection. Collectively, these observations support a sequential cascade model: Cav1.2 inhibition restrains viral entry and indirectly mitigates virus-triggered ER stress. Furthermore, nisoldipine exhibits broad-spectrum in vitro antiviral activity against multiple enveloped RNA and DNA viruses, including human coronavirus OC43 (HCoV-OC43), respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), Zika virus (ZIKV), Dengue virus Type 2 (DENV2), and Herpes Simplex Virus Type 1/2 (HSV-1/2). This study clarifies the mechanistic involvement of Cav1.2 in IAV infection and further identifies it as a promising broad-spectrum antiviral target with potential applications in preventing and treating influenza, human coronavirus infections, and other emerging viral diseases.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Therapeutic protein overexpression can overwhelm endoplasmic reticulum (ER) folding capacity, trigger unfolded protein response (UPR) signaling, and compromise the safety of gene and mRNA therapies. Here, we engineer stress-responsive RNA rheostats that couple transgene expression to endogenous ER stress sensing. Short RNA elements derived from X-box-binding protein 1 (XBP1) mRNA undergo inositol-requiring enzyme 1α (IRE1α)-dependent splicing under ER stress, inducing a frameshift that attenuates downstream protein expression. XBP1 switches function across DNA and mRNA delivery platforms and regulate the expression of fluorescent reporters, coagulation factor VIII, and Leronlimab, a therapeutic anti-CCR5 monoclonal antibody. Switch activation reduces ER stress markers while preserving expression under homeostatic conditions. We further demonstrate the regulation of Leronlimab expression in vivo using recombinant adeno-associated virus vectors. Together, these findings establish programmable RNA feedback control as a strategy for linking cellular proteostasis to therapeutic protein expression and improving the safety of gene and mRNA therapies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Microglia play a key role in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and their increased heterogeneity likely affects disease progression. We previously identified distinct microglial signatures that were enriched in AD donors and associated with amyloid and tau, respectively. Here we generated a snRNAseq dataset from postmortem control and AD cases and analyzed alterations in cell-cell communication pathways that might be relevant to AD pathophysiology. One signaling pathway perturbed in AD cases involved SPP1, and while this pathway was also present in control samples, microglia-microglia SPP1 signaling was restricted to AD donors. Further analyses within microglia-microglia signaling predict AD-specific induction of GAS6-AXL signaling (from inflammatory and ribosomal microglia), and SPP1-ITGAV/ITGB5 signaling (from disease-associated and inflammatory microglia, among others). Together, these findings might in part explain the increased microglia phagocytic profile described in AD. RNAscope confirmed enrichment of SPP1 expressing microglia near amyloid plaques in AD brain tissue samples. These data indicate altered cellular communications between microglia in the AD brain.© 2026 The Author(s). GLIA published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are membrane-bound particles that mediate intercellular communication and are being explored as carriers for antigen delivery in cancer immunotherapy. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the uptake of antigen-carrying EVs by dendritic cells (DCs) remain unclear. EV uptake is influenced by the recognition of EV surface components by receptors on recipient cells. Phospholipids, including phosphatidylserine (PS), are common structural components of EV membrane. We therefore focused on the TAM receptor tyrosine kinases Tyro3, Axl, and Mertk, which are expressed in antigen-presenting cells and engage PS-exposing membranes through the bridging ligands Growth arrest-specific 6 (Gas6) and Protein S (Pros1). Using the DC2.4 dendritic cell line as a model system, we investigated the involvement of TAM receptors in the uptake of small EVs (sEVs) and subsequent antigen presentation. We found that Tyro3 binding to sEVs was enhanced by Gas6 and Pros1, and that Tyro3 also associated with phosphatidylserine (PS) and phosphatidylglycerol (PG) through these bridging ligands. Among TAM receptors, only Tyro3 markedly enhanced sEV internalization in DC2.4 cells. Deletion analysis indicated that the immunoglobulin C2-type domain (IG2c domain) of Tyro3 is required for efficient sEV association and uptake. Moreover, Tyro3-mediated internalization enabled cross-presentation of sEV-delivered antigens and activation of CD8+ T cells. This function required a 46-amino acid intracellular region of Tyro3, which we designated the Tyro3 antigen presentation-related domain (TAPD); deletion of TAPD impaired cross-presentation of sEV-delivered antigens. Finally, we observed an increase in the frequency of Tyro3 ⁺ DCs in the spleens of tumor-bearing mice. These findings suggest that Tyro3 mediates sEV uptake and antigen cross-presentation in DCs and may represent a candidate molecular target for EV-based cancer immunotherapy.Copyright: © 2026 Koyama et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
IntroductionFirst-generation EGFR-TKIs in NSCLC frequently lose efficacy as a result of the secondary EGFR-T790M mutation and a "persistent-STAT3" prosurvival pathway that sustains STAT3-survivin signaling in the face of EGFR inhibition. Preclinical evidence demonstrates that phytochemicals in the JI017 herbal formulation (2:1:1, Angelica gigas: processed Aconitum carmichaeli: Zingiber officinale) can reinstate erlotinib sensitivity in T790M-positive NSCLC, and relevant molecular mechanisms have been examined.MethodsAnti-proliferative activities were evaluated in A549 (EGFR-WT), HCC827 (EGFR Δ19), and H1975 (EGFR L858R/T790M) cells utilizing MTT assays, colony formation, and Annexin V/7-AAD flow cytometry. Mechanistic analyses included immunoblotting for p-EGFR (Tyr1068/1173), p-JAK2, p-STAT3 (Tyr705), PARP, Bcl-2, survivin, and AXL, complemented by RT-qPCR for BIRC5 and AXL transcripts. Drug interaction effects were determined using the Chou-Talalay combination index (CompuSyn). Anti-tumor efficacy was assessed in H1975 xenografts treated for 14 days with vehicle, JI017, erlotinib, or combination therapy; tumors underwent H&E staining and IHC for p-STAT3, survivin, and Ki-67.ResultsJI017 inhibited proliferation in all NSCLC cell lines tested, showing greatest effectiveness in H1975, where it triggered PARP cleavage and suppression of Bcl-2 and survivin expression. In H1975, co-treatment with JI017 and erlotinib led to synergistic growth inhibition, eradicated colony growth, and significantly elevated apoptotic cell populations compared to single treatments. While erlotinib alone reduced p-EGFR and p-JAK2, it left p-STAT3 largely unaltered, reflecting persistent-STAT3 activity. The combination regimen abrogated p-STAT3, further lowered p-EGFR and p-JAK2 levels, diminished BIRC5 mRNA, and decreased both AXL protein and transcript levels. In vivo, the drug combination achieved sustained tumor stasis relative to controls or monotherapy; combination group tumors displayed widespread necrosis and substantial decreases in p-STAT3, survivin, and Ki-67.DiscussionThese data support the suppression of STAT3-survivin as the primary mechanism by which JI017 sensitizes EGFR-T790M models to erlotinib. The consistent down-regulation of AXL indicates the inhibition of an AXL-mediated bypass that may maintain STAT3 signaling during EGFR blockade, although causality has yet to be confirmed. The marked in-vivo tumor inhibition without observable toxicity underscores the translational promise as a low-toxicity therapeutic adjunct.ConclusionsJI017 restores erlotinib sensitivity in EGFR-T790M NSCLC by inhibiting STAT3-survivin signaling and possibly reducing AXL-mediated resistance, resulting in durable antitumor effects both in vitro and in vivo. Additional preclinical studies and early-phase clinical assessment of JI017 in combination with erlotinib are justified.
Mature plasmacytoid dendritic cell proliferation associated with acute myeloid leukemia (pDC-AML) is a distinct entity with poor prognosis. Yet, the mechanisms underlying the immune evasion and aberrant pDC expansion remain poorly understood. We performed multi-omic profiling of 18 pDC-AML cases, along with 207 non-pDC-AML and 16 BPDCN cases as controls. Single-cell RNA-seq and proteomic analyses demonstrated that pDC-AML leukemia stem cells exhibited unfolded protein response activation, particularly the IRE1α-XBP1 axis, which preceded the acquisition of the pDC maturation program. Supporting this, pharmacological induction of endoplasmic reticulum stress in myeloid cells upregulated BCL11A, the master transcription factor in pDC differentiation, and induced a pDC immunophenotype (CD123+BDCA2+). Importantly, pDC-AML-derived pDCs exhibited functional impairment, including compromised antigen-presenting pathways and reduced interactions between pDCs and CD8+ T cells. scTCR-seq analysis revealed significantly restricted T-cell clonal expansion in the pDC-AML bone marrow microenvironment, which correlated with leukemic burden and reversed upon clinical remission. Notably, allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) significantly improved overall and progression-free survival, abrogating the prognostic disadvantage relative to non-pDC-AML. Collectively, these findings establish impaired anti-leukemia immunity as a hallmark of pDC-AML, support early HSCT as a clinical priority, and identify ER-stressed pDCs as a potential novel therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42546855 is a review article
This study aimed to investigate the effects of stevia extract (SE) on growth performance and meat quality of broilers and reveal possibly mechanisms. Four hundred Arbor Acres male broilers (1 d old, 40 ± 1 g) were randomly assigned to 5 treatments with 8 replicates of 10 broilers per replicate. Broilers in the control (CON) group were fed the basal diet, while broilers in the other 4 treatment groups were fed the basal diet supplemented with 50, 100, 150, and 200 mg/kg SE, respectively. Dietary supplementation with SE effectively improved breast meat quality and tended to increase average daily gain (ADG) in broilers. Compared with the CON group, 150 mg/kg SE reduced 48 h drip loss and peak shear force of breast muscle (P < 0.05). Both 150 and 200 mg/kg SE decreased total cholesterol (TC) and triglyceride (TG) contents, while 100 and 150 mg/kg SE reduced malondialdehyde (MDA) concentration in breast muscle (P < 0.05). SE altered fatty acid (FA) composition: 150 mg/kg SE decreased the proportion of C24:0, and 200 mg/kg SE decreased C22:6n3 (P < 0.05). Linear regression analysis identified 150 mg/kg as the optimal SE level for meat quality improvement, which also downregulated FASN and ACACA mRNA expression (P < 0.05). Untargeted metabolomics revealed that 150 mg/kg SE modulated glycerophospholipid metabolism. Further validation confirmed that 150 mg/kg SE increased phospholipid (PL) content in breast muscle and improved endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and mitochondrial (MT) homeostasis. These changes were accompanied by reduced mRNA and protein expression of ER stress biomarkers (GRP78, PERK, IRE1, XBP1) and the MT chaperone HSP60 (P < 0.05). In conclusion, SE improves broiler breast meat quality via regulating the glycerophospholipid metabolism and enhancing endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondrial homeostasis. Regression analysis in this study indicates that the optimal SE supplementation amount for broilers is 150 mg/kg.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Emodin exhibits various pharmacological activities, including hepatoprotective effects. However, its clinical application is limited by poor absorption and low oral bioavailability. This study aimed to optimize emodin through benzoylation and to assess the hepatoprotective potential of the resulting derivatives integrating bioinformatics and in vitro methods.We conducted network pharmacology, molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations to predict potential targets and interactions of benzoylated emodin derivatives. The derivatives were synthesized and evaluated for cytotoxicity using the MTT assay. The hepatoprotective effects were assessed in vitro using a paracetamol-induced HepG2 cell injury model.Network pharmacology analysis and gene expression profiling identified four major targets-HSP90AA1, MAPK14, RELA, and PRKACA-as key liver disease-related targets of emodin and its derivatives. Molecular docking study revealed that the benzoylated emodin derivatives exhibited generally lower (more negative) binding energies compared to emodin across all four targets. MD simulations confirmed that the complex RELA with these derivatives is more stable than with emodin. These findings were consistent with in vitro assays, emodin and its derivatives increased cell viability or protected the cells up to 60-70%.This study provides a comprehensive evaluation of benzoylated emodin derivatives as potential hepatoprotective agents. The findings suggest that these derivatives exhibit binding affinity toward important targets related to cirrhosis, reduced toxicity to cells, and enhanced the efficacy in protecting the liver in vitro liver injury model.© the Author(s).
Myocardial ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury constitutes a major clinical challenge in ischemic heart disease, and ferroptosis has been recognized as a core driver of cardiomyocyte death during reperfusion. However, the upstream regulatory network governing myocardial ferroptosis remains incompletely defined. The mitogen-activated protein kinase 14 (p38α, MAPK14) is a stress-activated kinase critically involved in cardiac pathophysiology, yet its role in I/R-induced ferroptosis remains unclear. Here, we report that p38α deficiency attenuates ferroptosis and protects against myocardial I/R injury by stabilizing c-Myc. Phosphorylated p38α (p-p38α) was significantly elevated in mouse hearts after I/R and in cardiomyocytes following oxygen-glucose deprivation/reperfusion (OGD/R). Cardiomyocyte-specific p38α knockout markedly reduced ferroptosis, myocardial infarct size, and cardiac dysfunction. Mechanistically, p-p38α interacts with c-Myc under I/R stress via key residues Arg291, Arg300, and Lys304 of c-Myc and promotes the recruitment of the E3 ubiquitin ligase STUB1, thereby enhancing ubiquitination at Lys51 (K51) of c-Myc and its proteasomal degradation. Loss of p38α stabilizes c-Myc protein and reverses this process. Furthermore, c-Myc acts as a transcriptional repressor of NCOA4, a core mediator of ferroptosis. I/R-induced downregulation of c-Myc relieves NCOA4 suppression, triggering iron overload, lipid peroxidation, and ferroptosis. Overexpression of c-Myc or inhibition of STUB1 or NCOA4 abolished the pro-ferroptotic effect of I/R. Pretreatment with the p38α inhibitor VX-745 recapitulated the cardioprotective effects by restoring the p38α/c-Myc/NCOA4 axis in vivo. Collectively, our findings identify the p38α/c-Myc/NCOA4 signaling axis as a regulatory cascade governing myocardial I/R-induced ferroptosis. These findings nominate the p38α/c-Myc/NCOA4 axis as a potential therapeutic target in myocardial I/R injury.© 2026. The Author(s).
The elevated mortality associated with ovarian cancer arises from delayed detection, recurrent disease, and the rapid emergence of chemoresistance. This study assesses the anticancer efficacy of two synthetic curcumin analogues, B-143 and B-155, in comparison to natural curcumin, employing SKOV3 ovarian cancer cells as the experimental model.The aim of this study was to determine whether structural alterations to the analogues enhanced their functional performance.Through assays assessing cytotoxicity, cell-cycle distribution, apoptosis, and migration, the findings revealed that B-155 exhibited significantly greater cytotoxicity compared to curcumin and B-143, which was associated with G2/M cell-cycle arrest and increased apoptosis. Furthermore, both B-155 and curcumin effectively suppressed SKOV3 cell migration, whereas B-143 displayed minimal effects. Network pharmacology analyses predicted that B-143 and B-155 interact with overlapping yet distinct angiogenesis- and metastasis-associated signaling networks, suggesting potential associations with multiple signaling pathways relevant to ovarian cancer. Moreover, RT-qPCR reveals curcumin consistently downregulated the expression of genes linked to epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and cellular stress, whereas B-143 and B-155 displayed only partial adaptive responses in several angiogenesis and metastasis transcription markers. To further explore the molecular basis of B-155 activity, molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations were performed using MAPK14 (p38α MAPK) as a candidate target. Computational analyses demonstrated favorable binding of B-155 within the MAPK14 ATP-binding pocket and stable protein-ligand complex formation throughout a 100 ns simulation.B-155 demonstrated more significant anticancer activity than B-143, suggesting superior structural change-enhanced effectiveness. This research highlights the influence of structural modifications on curcumin's biological activity, supports B-155 as a promising curcumin analogue for further investigation with anti-proliferative and migration suppressive properties, and emphasizes the need to incorporate both phenotypic and network-level assessments together with structural interaction analyses in curcumin-based drug development for ovarian cancer.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Diabetic nephropathy is a leading cause of end-stage renal disease, with podocyte loss being a critical event in its progression. However, the dominant molecular mechanism driving podocyte loss remains elusive, hindering targeted therapy. We aimed to identify the key pathways of podocyte failure in human diabetic nephropathy and investigate metformin's therapeutic potential.We employed an integrative multi-omics approach, including single-nucleus RNA-seq (snRNA-seq) of 156,043 human kidney nuclei from individuals with diabetic nephropathy and healthy control individuals, db/db mouse models of diabetic nephropathy, spatial metabolomics, in vitro podocyte cultures, and targeted urinary metabolomics in individuals with diabetic nephropathy and healthy control individuals.snRNA-seq identified ferroptosis and fatty acid metabolic dysregulation as the most enriched pathways within podocytes, mechanistically linked to the MAPK14-solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11)-glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) axis. In murine diabetic nephropathy models and in vitro, metformin directly inhibited this MAPK14-SLC7A11-GPX4 axis, suppressed podocyte ferroptosis (including restoration of GPX4 and SLC7A11 expression and reduction of p-p38 and lipid peroxidation) and restored compartment-specific renal lipid accumulation as shown by spatial metabolomics. Clinically, we identified and validated a urinary fatty acid signature, with palmitoylcarnitine as a key biomarker (AUC 0.974, calculated from receiver operating characteristic curves), correlating with disease indices including blood glucose, eGFR, serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen.Our study reveals podocyte ferroptosis to be a central pathogenic event in human diabetic nephropathy, repositioning metformin as a direct ferroptosis inhibitor that preserves podocyte integrity via the MAPK14-SLC7A11-GPX4 axis. Furthermore, we provide a high-performance urinary biomarker, offering a direct translational link toward targeted anti-ferroptosis therapies and non-invasive diagnostics for diabetic nephropathy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) is a prevalent and complex syndrome, with metabolic dysfunction playing a pivotal role in its progression. Disrupted endoplasmic reticulum (ER) homeostasis is recognized as a central mechanism in its pathogenesis. Although the homologous kinases Pak1 and Pak2 regulate the ER stress response, the role of Pak1 in HFpEF remains unclear. This study demonstrates that Pak1 is a critical regulator of cardiac adaptation to metabolic stress. Using a murine HFpEF model combining high‑fat diet and nitric oxide synthase inhibition, Pak1 knockdown accelerates diastolic dysfunction and maladaptive remodeling, accompanied by disrupted ER ultrastructure and impaired PERK‑ATF4 signaling, whereas Pak1 overexpression preserves cardiac function and ER homeostasis. Mechanistically, Pak1 activates the ERK1/2-MNK1-eIF4E signaling axis and promotes adaptive integrated stress response (ISR) signaling through the PERK-ATF4 pathway. Pharmacological inhibition of MNK1 attenuated Pak1-mediated PERK activation and ATF4 induction, identifying a mechanistic link between Pak1 signaling and adaptive stress responses. Furthermore, we developed a novel small-molecule Pak1 activator, JB2019, which reversed metabolic stress-induced cardiac dysfunction in both HFpEF mice and cardiac organoids. Collectively, these findings identify Pak1 as a novel regulator of adaptive ISR signaling and establish Pak1 activation as a promising therapeutic strategy for HFpEF.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
In the developing human placenta, three subtypes of trophoblast cells, cytotrophoblasts (CTBs), extravillous trophoblasts (EVTs), and syncytiotrophoblasts (STBs), mediate critical functions essential for a successful pregnancy. CTBs constitute the stem/progenitor compartment and differentiate into STBs and EVTs within the floating and anchoring villi, respectively. STBs establish the maternal-fetal exchange interface and secrets human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), a hormone vital for the maintenance of early pregnancy. EVTs anchor the maternal endometrium and invade the uterine tissue to remodel maternal cells, supporting implantation and progression of pregnancy. In this study, we used human trophoblast stem cells (hTSCs) as a model system and performed quantitative, label-free liquid chromatography tandem Mass Spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) to profile proteome and phosphoproteome in TSC stem state (analogous to undifferentiated CTBs) and following their differentiation to STBs and EVTs. Through a multiomics approach, we integrated our proteomics data with global gene expression profiles to correlate cell type specific gene and protein expression during human trophoblast development. We also identified global phosphoproteome and analyzed kinases that are specifically active in hTSC stem state, as well as in differentiated STBs and EVTs. We experimentally validated specific kinases, such as BUB1B, PAK6, PKYMT1 and TNIK are essential for maintaining the hTSC stem state. Additionally, atypical protein kinase C isoforms PKC zeta is essential for STB development, while PTK2B, SRC, TRIO and LYN are important for EVT development. Our findings highlight key kinases uniquely required for specific stages of trophoblast development during human placentation and suggest that pharmacological inhibition of these kinases could negatively impact the placentation process during pregnancy.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a heterogeneous autoimmune disease involving inflammatory macrophage polarization and hepatic acute-phase responses. Serum amyloid A3 (SAA3) is elevated in lupus-prone mice and may participate in the immune link between liver inflammation and macrophage responses. Jieduquyuziyin Prescription (JP) is a traditional formula used clinically for SLE, but its chemical basis and SAA3-related immunomodulatory mechanisms remain incompletely defined.This study investigated the effects of JP on SLE-related inflammatory phenotypes, hepatocyte SAA3 expression, and macrophage MAPK14/p38-related M1 polarization responses, and examined the interaction between representative JP constituents and MAPK14.MRL/Lpr mice were used to evaluate the in vivo effects of JP. LC-MS and HPLC were used for chemical characterization. Network pharmacology, primary splenic macrophages, primary hepatocytes, and macrophage-naive CD4⁺ T cell co-culture systems were used to characterize JP-associated immune responses. Western blotting, flow cytometry, ELISA, and immunofluorescence were performed to assess p38 phosphorylation, macrophage polarization, cytokines, and SAA3. Molecular docking, SPR, molecular dynamics simulations, and ADP-Glo™ kinase assay were used to evaluate MAPK14 binding and kinase activity modulation by representative constituents.JP treatment improved survival and renal-related indices in MRL/Lpr mice, accompanied by lower serum SAA3 levels, reduced splenic F4/80⁺ CD86⁺ macrophages, and decreased F4/80/iNOS signals. JP-medicated serum reduced SAA3-induced p38 phosphorylation, iNOS expression, and IL-6 and IL-1β release, while increasing Arg-1 expression and F4/80⁺ CD206⁺ cells. JP-medicated serum also reduced IL-6-induced SAA3 expression in hepatocytes. In co-culture, systems containing SAA3-treated macrophages showed increased CD4⁺ IL-17A⁺ cells and IL-17 levels, whereas JP treatment reduced these readouts. Hesperidin, glycyrrhizic acid, and paeoniflorin were detected in JP decoction and JP-medicated serum and generated measurable binding responses to MAPK14. The three-compound mixture and individual constituents reduced recombinant MAPK14 kinase activity, with stronger activity observed for the mixture.JP treatment was associated with reduced hepatocyte SAA3 expression, attenuated macrophage MAPK14/p38-related M1 inflammatory responses, and decreased Th17-associated inflammatory indices. MAPK14 may serve as a mechanistically relevant molecular node engaged by representative JP constituents, providing experimental support for JP-mediated regulation of SLE-related inflammatory networks.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Alcohol-associated liver disease (ALD) constitutes an acute and life-threatening condition, which may lead to the failure of multiple organs. Its characteristics are complex pathophysiological processes and high mortality rate. 6-shogaol, a bioactive ginger-derived compound, exhibits immunomodulatory, anti-inflammatory, and anticancer activities with favorable in vivo safety. Nonetheless, its exact mechanism underlying the therapeutic effect on ALD has not been fully elucidated.The therapeutic effects and mechanistic action of 6-shogaol against ALD were investigated through network pharmacology and experimental validation.Network pharmacology analysis was employed to identify the candidate bioactive monomer from ginger with potential therapeutic effects against ALD. An in vitro ALD model was established by treating AML-12 cells with EtOH, followed by bioactivity screening. Bioactive compounds' protective effects against ALD were systematically evaluated in cell-based assays. To investigate the underlying mechanisms, transcriptomic analysis was performed alongside molecular biology techniques, including Western blotting, immunofluorescence, and RT-qPCR.10 compounds were identified from ginger through network pharmacology, with 6-shogaol exhibiting the most favorable oral bioavailability (OB) and drug-likeness (DL) profiles. 6-shogaol exerted hepatoprotective effects by attenuating inflammation and regulating lipid metabolism. Furthermore, network pharmacology and transcriptomic analysis revealed that MAPK14 may serve as a potential target for 6-shogaol in the alleviation of ALD. Subsequently, validation in ALD mice and EtOH-induced AML-12 cells suggested that 6-shogaol may suppress MAPK14, thereby attenuating endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS) and ultimately ameliorating ALD.6-shogaol is a potential bioactive component in ginger for ALD treatment by modulating MAPK14. It exerts therapeutic effects by regulating ERS, inflammation responses, and lipid metabolism processes, positioning it as a promising candidate for ALD management.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Resistance to FLT3 inhibitors remains a major limitation in the treatment of FLT3-mutated acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Canonically, ERK is considered the predominant MAPK effector downstream of FLT3 signaling. However, pharmacologic inhibition of MEK/ERK provides limited clinical benefit once resistance develops, suggesting that alternative signaling dependencies may emerge under therapeutic pressure. Using an unbiased kinome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 screen in gilteritinib-resistant AML cells, we identified MAPK14 (encoding p38α), rather than MAPK3/MAPK1 (encoding ERK1/2), as a prominent context-dependent dependency associated with the resistant state. Genetic impairment or pharmacologic inhibition of p38 enhanced gilteritinib sensitivity and synergized with FLT3 inhibition to suppress leukemic growth. Mechanistically, resistant cells exhibited adaptor-mediated rewiring of FLT3 signaling, in which p46-SHC1 supported an FLT3-associated MKK3/6-p38 signaling module despite FLT3 inhibition, thereby sustaining downstream programs including MYC expression. Consistent with its role as a stress-responsive kinase, p38 supports leukemic cell survival under prolonged drug exposure. Together, these findings define a non-canonical MAPK signaling state associated with FLT3 inhibitor resistance, provide a mechanistic explanation for the limited efficacy of MEK/ERK-directed therapies in the resistant setting, and offer a rationale for combination strategies targeting stress-adaptive pathways to improve the durability of FLT3-directed therapy in AML.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
The ovarian cancer immunoreactive antigen domain-containing protein 1 (OCIAD1) is a mitochondrial protein implicated in mitochondrial morphology, energy metabolism, and differentiation. Although understudied, recent studies position it as a critical player in carcinogenesis and neurodegenerative disorders, making it a potentially druggable node in cellular signaling networks. However, the phosphoregulatory networks and the upstream kinases governing OCIAD1 remain unknown.A large-scale literature mining and analysis of 177 phosphoproteomic datasets with differential expression of OCIAD1 was carried out to map its phosphoregulatory network. The predominant phosphosites were determined based on localization probability, detection frequency, and differential regulation. Multipronged computational approaches were employed to gather novel candidate kinases that may target OCIAD1 phosphosites. Co-differential phosphorylation analysis was conducted with other proteins, including interactors and candidate upstream kinases, to infer functional and regulatory associations.The sites S108 and S123 emerged as predominant, together accounting for 70% of OCIAD1 phosphorylation. Co-differential phosphorylation analysis revealed associations with proteins involved in the cell cycle, DNA repair, autophagy, mitophagy, endocytosis, and apoptosis. Novel candidate kinases for OCIAD1 phosphosites were identified; notably, SRMS and YES1 emerged as potential upstream regulators of Y199. Furthermore, the phosphosites in the candidate kinases of sites, including PLK1 (T210), CDK13 (S383, S397), PRKD2 (S200), CIT (S1343), and RPS6KA3 (T577), showed strong positive co-differential regulation with OCIAD1 predominant sites, supporting their potential involvement as upstream kinases.This study presents the first systematic map of the OCIAD1 phosphoregulatory network and provides candidate upstream kinases that may contribute to its phosphorylation, which warrant further experimental validation. The strong co-differential regulation of proteins involved in autophagy, mitophagy, endocytosis, and neurodegenerative pathways, as well as of kinases that orchestrate these processes, suggests that OCIAD1 phosphoregulatory network maybe involved in mitochondrial quality control and mitochondria-associated neurodegeneration, establishing a foundation for therapeutic investigations targeting OCIAD1 signaling.Copyright © 2026 Fahma, Subair, Lubaba, Gopalakrishnan, Shivamurthy and Raju.
The amino acid sequence requirements that instruct the modification of proteins with chondroitin sulfate (CS) have been unknown, precluding predictions or opportunities for precise protein engineering. This study identified an essential amino acid motif for CS addition, the "CS-sequon" (EDQDDKDGGDFSGWGG), by comparing the secreted sulfatases SULF1 and SULF2, where only SULF2 is CS-modified. A cluster of seven amino acids plus a nearby tryptophan are critical for CS attachment; inserting the CS-sequon into SULF1 enabled it to gain CS modification. This sequon recruits the activity of the CS-initiating xylosyltransferase to the peptide modification site and CS addition enhances SULF1/2 extracellular abundance and enzymatic activity. These findings were validated across human and non-human cells and in Drosophila, providing a foundational resource for engineering CS modifications into proteins.
Background: Benzo[a]pyrene (BaP), a common food contaminant, is a recognized gastric carcinogen. This study aimed to identify therapeutic targets and repurposed drugs for gastric cancer (GC) using BaP as a network toxicology query. Methods: An integrated strategy combining network toxicology, multi-omics, machine learning (Random Forest, LASSO, SVM-RFE), and experimental validation was applied. Results: By intersecting GC-associated genes with BaP-related targets and machine learning, we identified three hub genes. The logistic regression model further revealed KCNE2 as a protective factor (OR = 0.515, 95% CI: 0.383-0.692), while SULF1 (OR = 2.940, 95% CI: 1.399-6.179) and TIMP1 (OR = 5.351, 95% CI: 2.020-16.743) were identified as potential risk factors. Survival analysis confirmed their prognostic significance. Single-cell transcriptomics descriptively showed TIMP1 and SULF1 enrichment in malignant/stromal cells and fibroblasts, respectively, whereas KCNE2 was restricted to normal epithelial cells and silenced in tumors. GSVA implicated epigenetic regulation, ECM remodeling, and TGF-β signaling. Molecular docking and dynamics simulations suggested that BaP can form stable complexes with DNMT1 and DNMT3A. Accordingly, drug enrichment analysis identified DNMT inhibitor 5-azacytidine as a top candidate. Cellular experiments confirmed that 5-azacytidine selectively inhibited GC cells and was associated with modulation of the DNMT3A-KCNE2 axis. Conclusions: Our findings provide a novel molecular target and a repurposed drug for GC from the perspective of a food contaminant.
Pachymic acid (PA) is a natural active component of Poria cocos(Schw.)Wol. Although PA exhibits antitumor activity in multiple cancers, its effects and mechanisms against glioma remain elusive. This study aimed to investigate the anti-glioma effects of PA and identify its potential candidate core targets and pathways. Functional experiments demonstrated that PA significantly inhibited the proliferation, migration, and invasion of glioma cells and induced apoptosis in a dose-dependent manner. Using network pharmacology, machine learning, and bioinformatics analysis, we screened six candidate targets: PDE4D, CAPN2, MAPK9, EPHB6, CCKBR, and FAAH. TCGA analysis confirmed that CAPN2 and PDE4D were upregulated in glioma, while the others were downregulated. Molecular docking, an in silico predictive approach, suggested that PA may potentially form favorable binding conformations with these core targets based on calculated binding energies. Further verification revealed that PA treatment was associated with reduced AKT and mTOR phosphorylation, suggesting that the PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathway may be involved in mediating its anti-glioma activity. In conclusion, PA exerts dose-dependent anti-glioma cellular effects through multi-gene regulation, and the suppressed activation of the PI3K-AKT pathway may correlate with its anti-tumor function. These results provide a theoretical basis for developing PA as a potential therapeutic agent for glioma.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42448519
Skipped: PubMed ID 42417108 is a review article
Host genetic susceptibility to urogenital Chlamydia trachomatis (Ct) reinfection remains poorly understood. Coding variants identified in prior genome-wide association studies (GWAS) explained only a small fraction of the risk of reinfection. Our goal in this study was to characterize whether more risk would be captured by sequence variation that traditional GWAS insufficiently captures. Specifically, we evaluated the risk attributable to SNPs present in regulatory, non-coding regions; post-transcriptional regulation by microRNAs (miRNAs) that may depend on sequence variation in either the miRNA or the target mRNA; and copy number variants (CNVs). We analyzed GWAS data from African American women with or without documented urogenital Ct reinfection. Fine mapping and independent association analyses identified 30 unique index single-nucleotide polymorphisms (iSNPs), which were expanded to variants in linkage disequilibrium. Regulatory annotation was performed using HaploReg, RegulomeDB, FORGEdb, rSNPBase, and GTEx. We examined whether genes identified in the Ct reinfection GWAS are targeted by known Ct infection-associated microRNAs using curated databases. Genome-wide CNV calling was conducted using SNP intensity data, followed by stringent quality control and gene-level association testing. Functional annotation prioritized 7 SNPs with strong regulatory evidence, with stringent criteria for regulatory relevance, using HaploReg, RegulomeDB, FORGEdb, and rSNPBase. The strongest signals were observed at the CHIT1 locus, where multiple intronic variants (including rs2486963 and rs2244385) overlapped regulatory chromatin, altered transcription factor binding motifs, and acted as cis-expression quantitative trait loci for CHIT1 in whole blood. Additional regulatory variants were identified near TDRP, ERICH1, and DLGAP1, showing tissue-specific regulatory effects. MicroRNA analysis revealed extensive post-transcriptional targeting of SOCS6 and SULF1, while CHIT1 showed no curated Ct-associated miRNA interactions. CNV analysis identified 5775 high-confidence events, with nominal gene-level associations observed for ATAD3A, CARD14, TMEM240, and ZNF140. These results indicate that a greater fraction of the susceptibility to urogenital Ct reinfection may be driven by genetic variation affecting immune and epithelial pathways rather than protein-coding changes.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42330294
Data about hereditary angioedema (HAE) from Latin American countries are lacking. Our main objective was to characterize the epidemiology, clinical presentation, and treatment patterns of HAE patients from Argentina at a nationwide level.A non-interventional, observational, web-based survey was conducted, aimed at physicians treating patients with a confirmed diagnosis of HAE. Data about demographic characteristics, HAE type and family history, clinical pattern, attack frequency and triggers, treatment patterns, and use of validated HAE scores were collected to develop a patient registry.Data from 538 patients submitted by 75 physicians were obtained. Median age was 33 years (IQR:20-46). Most patients were female (58.73%). Median age at presentation of first symptoms was 12 years (IQR:5-18). Median time from presentation to a confirmed diagnosis of HAE was 10 years (IQR:5-18). Most patients had deficiency of C1-INH (HAE-1, 76%). Variants in the F12 gene (HAE-FXII) were found in 7% of subjects; variants in DAB2IP (p.D239 N) (HAE-DAB2IP) were identified in 7 subjects. Severity of HAE was predominantly moderate (37%). Most reported triggers were emotional stress (75.55%) and physical trauma (69.59%). Specific treatment for attacks was prescribed for 88% of patients. Icatibant was the most prescribed drug (76.91%). Long-term prophylaxis (LTP) was used in 28.34% of subjects, with lanadelumab being the most prescribed agent (58.45%).Argentine HAE patients share several characteristics with patients from real-world studies, but some findings (time to diagnosis, low LTP rates, relatively high rates of HAE-FXII and a novel, recently characterized form of HAE-DAB2IP) require further research.© 2026 Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of World Allergy Organization.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42267535 is a review article
Rumen development shows clear spatial specificity, with distinct tissue morphology and proliferation patterns across regions. This heterogeneity likely results from region-specific transcriptional regulation. Identifying key genes and signaling pathways underlying these spatial differences is helpful for understanding the molecular basis of rumen development. This study investigated the morphological characteristics of different rumen regions in lambs, analyzed their associations with growth performance and fermentation parameters, and explored the underlying transcriptomic profiles. Histological observations revealed pronounced regional variation in rumen morphology. The ventral sac exhibited longer and denser papillae and a thicker keratinized layer than the blind sacs. Correlation analysis showed that papilla length and density were positively associated with growth performance traits such as body weight and average daily gain. Transcriptomic analysis revealed the highest number of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between the ventral and caudoventral blind sacs. Functional enrichment indicated that DEGs were enriched in focal adhesion, ErbB signaling, and cytoskeletal remodeling pathways. Members of the KLK family and other keratinization-related genes, together with ITGA, SHC, PAK3, and MAPK10, may coordinately regulate these pathways, contributing to the region-specific development of the rumen ventral sac. In conclusion, this study demonstrates distinct morphological and transcriptional patterns among rumen compartments, highlighting the ventral sac as the principal site for volatile fatty acid absorption and epithelial renewal. These findings provide new insights into the spatial regulation and molecular basis of rumen compartmental development.© 2026 Jia et al.
Recent developments have enabled the automated assembly of vertebrate chromosomes from telomere to telomere. However, for long, highly similar repeats, genome assemblers may leave tangles in the assembly graph and gaps in the assembly. In recently published genomes, such gaps are closed by manual graph curation, a process that is labor intensive, error prone, and sometimes infeasible. Consequently, important genomic regions may be misassembled or omitted. Here, we present the trivial tangle traverser (TTT) algorithm that finds optimized resolutions of assembly graph tangles. TTT uses depth of coverage and read-to-graph alignment information in a two-stage process to estimate sequence multiplicities and identify traversals that are consistent with the underlying data. We evaluate TTT traversals on the HG002 human reference genome, compare TTT with a state-of-the-art assembler on the giraffe T2T assembly, and demonstrate its use to characterize a previously unassembled amplified p21-activated serine/threonine kinase 3-like (PAK3L) gene array in the zebra finch genome.Published by Elsevier Inc.
Background: Discoidin domain receptor 1 (DDR1) is a collagen-activated receptor tyrosine kinase that plays an important role in epithelial cell regulation; its function in cancer appears to be dependent on tumour type. Methods: This study investigated DDR1 expression in large numbers of breast (n = 1416) and ovarian (n = 450) tumours using immunohistochemistry. In addition, RNA sequencing was conducted on DDR1 knockdown breast and ovarian cancer cell lines. Results: In breast cancer, high DDR1 expression was significantly associated with poor patient survival in ER-positive disease and low expression was associated with poor patient survival in ER-negative disease. In ovarian cancer, high DDR1 expression was associated with improved patient survival. In DDR1 knockdown IGROV1 ovarian cancer cells, 770 transcripts were differentially expressed, whilst in DDR1 knockdown T47D breast cancer cells, 3647 transcripts were differentially expressed. Only 149 genes were shared, suggesting that DDR1 drives distinct transcriptional programmes across cancer types. Shared genes between T47D and IGROV1 DDR1 knockdown cells include key regulators of signalling, metabolism, and cytoskeletal organisation such as YWHAE, NCK2, FN1, and ITGB4. Gene Ontology analysis revealed significant enrichment of epithelial cell migration pathways in both cell lines. Conclusions: Current protein expression and transcriptomic data highlight the important prognostic role of DDR1 expression in breast and ovarian cancer and provide hypothesis-generating insights into the contextual and transcriptomic differences between the two cancer types.
Prostate cancer is a prevalent disease with diverse tumor characteristics that complicate treatment. The integration of spatial patterns from prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT), pathology and expanding genomic data represents a groundbreaking advancement in histo-imaging genomics. The aim of this study was to elucidate the internetwork mapping between genetic biomarkers and PSMA PET/CT imaging in prostate cancer patients.mRNA sequencing and clinical data from 433 prostate cancer patients were retrieved from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. Differential gene expression between the Gleason score (GS) > 7 and GS ≤ 7 groups was analyzed. Feature selection was performed following the univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses. A GS predictive model was developed using multivariate logistic regression. Additionally, local samples and images from 27 patients were collected. PSMA PET/CT imaging was performed before radical prostatectomy, and mRNA sequencing of prostate cancer lesions was conducted using next-generation sequencing. Differentially expressed genes identified from the TCGA dataset were subsequently analyzed for correlations with PET-related metrics in the local dataset by utilizing Pearson correlation analysis.Out of the TCGA dataset, 174 genes exhibited differential expression. After feature selection, 53 genes remained. In the local dataset, ten genes (EFNA2, CACNA1I, CA1, MYBPC3, CYP1A1, TLCD3B, LRTM2, GBX2, SPSB4, and GDF3) demonstrated significant associations with PET-related metrics. When comparing the differential expression of genes between the GS>7 and GS≤7 groups, six genes (STMN2, CYP1A1, THRSP, LIPC, GBX2, and SPSB4) in the GS>7 group and eight genes (FBXL16, KLK14, DIRAS2, TERB2, PRAME, UTS2B, UGT2B15, and LINC02798) in the GS≤7 group were significantly correlated with PET-related parameters.This study identified genetic markers significantly correlated with PSMA PET/CT imaging features in prostate cancer patients. These findings may provide a valuable foundation for optimizing prostate cancer diagnostic procedures and tailoring therapeutic approaches based on genetic and imaging biomarkers.© 2026. The Author(s).
Mycotoxin contamination in the food chain poses serious risks to human and animal health, and aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) is the most toxic and carcinogenic compound Advanced strategies for mycotoxin mitigation emphasize biological control using non-pathogenic microorganisms. This study presents the first report of isolating Metschnikowia pulcherrima in Pakistan and its novel application as a biocontrol agent against AFB1. Three strains of M. pulcherrima, pak2 (MW341425), pak3 (MW341426), and pak4 (MW341427), were isolated from fruits (apple, orange, guava, and grape) using the dilution plate technique and evaluated for AFB1-binding potential using whole cells, cell walls, and glucan extracts. From a 100mL culture, 400 mg of yeast biomass produced  35 mg glucan and 5 mg chitin (cell wall proxy). AFB1 was produced and purified from Aspergillus flavus and quantified by HPLC. Binding assays were conducted by incubating 140ppb AFB1 with yeast components at 25 °C under agitation (200 rpm) for 0.5, 1, and 2 h. The highest AFB1 binding was achieved by M. pulcherrima pak3 whole cells (77.37 ± 1.48%) after 1 h Interaction time. Glucan extracts from M. pulcherrima pak3 and M. pulcherrima pak4 showed strong binding (74.99 ± 2.14) within 1-2 h of interaction. However, cell wall fractions showed lower efficacy as compared to glucan component. The cell wall of M. pulcherrima pak4 showed maximum binding (54.28 ± 2.86%) after 2 h. Results indicate that M. pulcherrima, particularly its whole cells and glucan components, effectively bind AFB1 in In-vitro assay suggesting its potential as a natural AFB1 mitigation tool in food and feed. This work highlights the importance of indigenous yeast strains in enhancing food safety.© 2026. The Author(s).
The development of musical abilities, including absolute pitch, musical memory, rhythm sense, and musicality, at a high degree is determined by a hereditary component (up to 68 %). The studies implementing a genome-wide linkage and association approach to musical aptitude have revealed more than 100 genetic loci. This spectrum is comprised of the genes encoding for transcription factors and those responsible for neurogenesis and synaptic plasticity, genes fixed as a result of positive selection of musicality, and those related to inner ear formation. Since no studies linking musical aptitude with genes have been previously conducted in Russia, the present study aimed at replicating the association of 17 previously identified genetic variants with developing musical abilities in Russians. Genotyping of SNPs in the GATA2, PCDH7, UNC5C, ASAP1, SBSPON, DCBLD2, KALRN, VLDLR, OTOF, GRIN2B, FoxP1, FoxP2, BDNF, EGR1, and SNCA genes was performed using competitive allele-specific PCR in a sample of students who underwent rigorous contest selection at admission to the conservatory and in the corresponding control group. A series of logistic regression analyses were used both to evaluate the main effect of SNP and to identify the best prognostic model based on various loci. The mathematical model obtained by including only statistically significant SNPs consisted of GATA2 rs9854612, SNCA rs356168, rs3910105, ASAP1 rs3057, and VLDLR rs1454626 (р = 0.0018, pseudo r2 = 0.188, AUC = 0.791). The addition of all examined SNPs as predictors enabled the construction of a statistically significant model with a higher predictive ability (р = 0.012, pseudo r2 = 0.380, AUC = 0.889). The results revealed indicate a potential cumulative gene effect, confirming the involvement of dopaminergic and GABAergic neurotransmission, the reelin pathway and the role of alpha-synuclein in musicality formation.Copyright © AUTHORS.
TAR DNA binding protein 43 (TDP-43) pathology is a defining pathological hallmark of multiple neurodegenerative diseases, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). A major feature of TDP-43 pathology is its nuclear depletion, leading to the aberrant inclusion of cryptic exons during RNA splicing. STMN2 and UNC13A have emerged as prominent TDP-43 splicing targets, but the broader impact of TDP-43-dependent cryptic splicing on neuronal function remains unclear. Here, we report previously unidentified TDP-43 splicing targets critical for membrane excitability and synaptic function, including KALRN, RAP1GAP, SYT7, and KCNQ2. Using human stem cell-derived neurons, we showed that TDP-43 reduction induces cryptic splicing and down-regulation of these genes, resulting in impaired excitability and synaptic transmission. In postmortem brains from patients with FTD, these cryptic splicing events occurred selectively in neurons with TDP-43 pathology. Suppressing individual cryptic splicing events using antisense oligonucleotides partially restored neuronal function, and combined targeting almost fully rescued the synaptic deficit caused by TDP-43 loss. Together, our findings provide evidence that cryptic splicing in these synaptic and membrane excitability genes is not only a downstream marker but instead a direct driver of neuronal dysfunction, establishing a mechanistic link between TDP-43 pathology and neurodegeneration in ALS and FTD.
Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental condition with a strong genetic basis. Most genetic studies on ASD emphasize de novo mutations, while inherited rare variants remain understudied. We hypothesize that subtle, inherited ASD-related traits accumulate across generations and clinically manifest as ASD in offspring. To investigate this, we extracted inherited variations from trio-based Whole Exome Sequences (WES) of 23 simplex ASD families (accession number PRJNA1071313 and PRJNA1072259). Data was processed in BWA, GATK and VarScan. Variants were annotated, filtered for functional impact, and scored using a 'weighted scoring' approach based on intolerance to genetic alterations. Overall 751 'weighted-genes' with evolutionary and neuronal functions hosting deleterious inherited variations were functionally annotated for ASD-linked behaviours and comorbidities. We found 149 (20%) genes enriched for core ASD-behaviours like social-interaction and restrictive repetitive behaviours (RRB), 200 genes (26.6%) for associated-behaviours like hyperactivity, communication, intelligence and mood and 225 genes displayed neuronal-functions (p = 3.799E-20). Importantly, 62% of RRB genes displayed sensory functions and 71.43% of genes associated to social interaction deficits were also linked to seizures. Brain tissue expression analysis of all 751 genes revealed 95 prenatally and 195 postnatally upregulated genes were enriched with neurodevelopmental and neurotransmission functions, respectively; protein-protein-interactions suggested genes BUB1, HMGA2, HDAC2, KALRN, SORL1, IGF2, FASN, WFS1 as promising new-candidates for ASD. In our ASD cohort, inherited variations in genes regulating sensory function and neurodevelopment were also RRB producing genes- supporting a multigenic, subdued but additive genetic load being passed down from unrelated parents to their offsprings- promising an underexplored avenue for autism genetic research.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
The greatest cause of death from breast cancer is metastasis, yet little is known about the molecular mechanisms behind this phenomenon. Using four publically accessible datasets, we conducted a thorough transcriptome analysis of 187 samples from seven breast cancer metastatic sites: the brain, bone, lung, liver, lymph nodes, skin, and local-regional skin (skinlr). Of the 12,005 genes that were found to be shared by all samples in this investigation, 604-885 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were unique to each metastatic location. Pathways including PI3K-Akt signaling, prolactin signaling, complement, and coagulation cascades were identified by functional enrichment analysis as important metastasis drivers with unique functions in different locales. The results of regulatory analysis revealed 77 upstream factors, including 14 kinases (like EPHB3, PAK3) and 63 transcription factors (like ESR1, FOXA1, and GATA3), some of which were discovered for the first time in breast cancer metastases (like TCF4, HOXA10). It was shown that hub genes including MMP9, SPP1, and PDGFRB are essential for the survival and development of metastases, offering new information on site-specific biology. Crucially, by identifying site-specific molecular markers, these discoveries pave the way for personalized medicine techniques and allow tumor-specific therapy tactics, such as targeting Central Carbon Metabolism in lung and skin metastases. This work provides actionable options for tumor-specific treatment and tailored interventions by highlighting new molecular candidates and signaling pathways for metastatic breast cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
While amyloid-β (Aβ) and tau are hallmark pathologies of Alzheimer's disease (AD), TDP-43 proteinopathy is increasingly recognized as an important contributor, occurring in up to 57% of AD cases and associated with accelerated cognitive decline. TDP-43 regulates RNA splicing, and its mislocalization leads to cryptic exon inclusion and loss of canonical protein function. While neuronal TDP-43 pathology has been well studied, its role in astrocytes remains less understood. Recent findings suggest increased phosphorylated TDP-43 (pTDP-43) inclusions in astrocytic endfeet in AD and a bidirectional interaction between Aβ and TDP-43, promoting mutual aggregation.We analyzed pTDP-43 immunoreactivity (IR) in astrocytic perivascular end-feet, nuclei, and cytosol in hippocampal sections from 3-month-old and 18-month-old AppNL-F/NL-F mice and 18-month-old wild-type controls using ImageJ. In vitro, primary fetal human astrocytes were exposed to oligomeric Aβ42, and changes in cytosolic and nuclear pTDP-43 IR were quantified via ImageJ, while TDP-43 and pTDP-43 protein levels were measured using an in-house ELISA. Expression of canonical transcripts ATG4B and KALRN, involved in autophagy and synaptic support, was assessed by qPCR. Corresponding protein-level changes were evaluated using in-house ELISA.Our findings demonstrate significantly higher pTDP-43 accumulations in astrocytic nuclei, cytosol, and endfeet in 18-month-old AppNL-F/NL-F mice compared to age-matched wild-type mice. Astrocytes exposed to oligomeric Aβ42 showed elevated cytosolic pTDP-43 IR and total pTDP-43 protein levels. Concurrently, expression of canonical ATG4B and KALRN transcripts was significantly reduced, which was accompanied by corresponding decreases in protein levels.Our findings demonstrate that pTDP-43 accumulates in astrocytic nuclei, cytosol, and endfeet in the presence of AD pathology. The observed Aβ-induced increase in cytosolic pTDP-43 and transcript disruption suggests a mechanistic link contributing to autophagy impairment and cytoskeletal changes in astrocytes, potentially exacerbating AD progression.Copyright © 2026 Rafiee, Santiago, Andersson, Hansson and Wennström.
Wound healing remains a major clinical challenge, often requiring treatments that combine antimicrobial, antioxidant, and anti-inflammatory properties. In the present study, a novel topical ointment containing curcumin functionalized copper nanoparticles (Cur-CuNPs) was developed and evaluated for wound-healing. Copper nanoparticles were green synthesized using Crossandra infundibuliformis leaf extract, followed by curcumin functionalization to enhance the stability, antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and wound healing activities. The formulated ointments were characterized and evaluated in Wistar albino rats with topical application daily for 16 days significantly accelerated wound contraction, enhanced re-epithelialization, and promoted organized collagen deposition in treated groups. Biochemical analysis revealed elevated antioxidant enzyme activities (superoxide dismutase and catalase) and reduced lipid peroxidation levels. ELISA-based cytokine profiling showed reduced levels of pro-inflammatory mediators (TNF-α and IL-6). Gene expression analysis showed increased VEGF expression together with reduced MMP-9 and IL-6 expression, while immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated increased Ki-67 and CD31 in Cur-CuNP-treated wounds. Collectively, these findings suggest that Cur- CuNP ointment promote wound healing with antioxidant activity, reduced inflammation, enhanced cellular proliferation, angiogenesis, and extracellular matrix remodeling, highlighting their potential as multifunctional topical therapeutics.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Pelvic organ prolapse (POP) is a prevalent condition characterized by weakened pelvic floor tissues, significantly impacting women's quality of life. Current treatments, including synthetic meshes and native tissue repair, face challenges of high recurrence rates and complications. This study developed a novel tissue-engineered strategy utilizing a decellularized human amniotic membrane (HAAM) scaffold seeded with autologous adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells (ADSCs) and vaginal wall fibroblasts (HVFs) to construct a bioactive pelvic ligament equivalent. We first validated the successful preparation of HAAM with preserved extracellular matrix integrity and characterized the phenotypic markers of ADSCs and HVFs. In a rat abdominal wall defect model, the HAAM+ADSCs+HVFs composite demonstrated superior tissue regeneration and integration, reduced fibrosis, and effective modulation of the host immune microenvironment -evidenced by enhanced repair and decreased infiltration of pro-inflammatory cells -compared to all control groups (including HAAM alone and single-cell groups). Transcriptomic analysis revealed that the composite treatment promoted extracellular matrix organization and collagen synthesis while suppressing matrix degradation (MMP2/MMP9) and inflammatory pathways. Most importantly, mechanistic studies identified TGFB2 as the key paracrine mediator through which ADSCs exert their effects: TGFB2 inhibition abolished ADSCs-induced improvements in HVFs proliferation, migration, and anti-apoptosis, while its overexpression replicated these benefits. Western blot confirmed that TGFB2 coordinately upregulates COL1A1/COL3A1 and downregulates MMP2/MMP9 to restore ECM homeostasis. These comprehensive findings demonstrate that the HAAM-based ADSCs-HVFs composite promotes functional tissue regeneration via TGFB2-mediated mechanisms, offering a safe, effective, and regenerative therapeutic strategy with strong translational potential for POP.Copyright © 2026 Dong, Zhang, Duan and Xia.
Utilizing single-cell RNA sequencing and network pharmacology, this study explored the mechanism by which Bletilla striata polysaccharide (BSP) mitigates peri-implantitis-associated osteolysis. Integrated analyses revealed a significant expansion of pro-inflammatory macrophages and osteoclasts in diseased tissues, with differentially expressed genes enriched in glycolytic pathways. Mechanistic exploration indicated that BSP suppresses osteoclastogenesis primarily by targeting matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP9), thereby inhibiting proteolytic activity and cytoskeletal remodeling. Preliminary rescue experiments supported this notion, showing that while BSP effectively downregulated LPS-induced MMP9 upregulation and suppressed macrophage glycolytic metabolism, forced overexpression of MMP9 partially restored MMP9 levels and reversed the inhibitory effect of BSP on osteoclast formation. These findings suggest a potential "metabolism-protease" interplay, where BSP concurrently modulates immune metabolism and protease activity to alleviate inflammatory bone loss, providing a foundational basis for developing plant-derived polysaccharide therapeutics.© 2026. The Society for In Vitro Biology.
Numerous studies have reported the biological activities of tilapia skin oligopeptides, which exhibit diverse physiological effects. However, research on the relationship between peptide structural characteristics and their activities remains relatively scarce. In this study, we combined computational simulations with biological experiments to investigate the anti-metastatic mechanism of the tilapia skin oligopeptide LSGYG. Computational analyses supported recurrent Zn-neighboring and pocket-associated recognition modes of LSGYG in the catalytic region of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) and identified a dynamically retained pocket-stabilized state with near-Zn anchoring features. Pulling-guided umbrella-window screening further provided qualitative support for a local metastable region near the Zn-adjacent catalytic microenvironment. Subsequent in vitro evaluations demonstrated that LSGYG significantly suppressed migration and invasion in phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA)-induced HT1080 cells and reduced metastasis-related molecular signaling in both HT1080 and 143B cells. Mechanistically, LSGYG substantially disrupted extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-like changes by downregulating MMP-2, MMP-9, N-cadherin, Vimentin, and the upstream regulator hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α), while restoring E-cadherin expression. These phenotypic reversals were associated with suppression of reactive oxygen species (ROS), mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), phosphoinositide 3-kinase/protein kinase B (PI3K/AKT), and nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) signaling pathways. These findings support LSGYG as a tilapia-derived bioactive peptide candidate for anti-metastatic functional-food or nutraceutical development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
SIRT3, a key mitochondrial deacetylase that regulates metabolic adaptation, oxidative stress, and apoptosis in cancer cells, has emerged as a promising therapeutic target in cancer treatment. 4,4'-dimethoxychalcone (DMC) is a natural chalcone derivative extracted from Angelica keiskei. In this study, we demonstrated that DMC induces thermosensitive impairment in SIRT3-associated mitochondrial signaling. A non-lethal temperature (42 °C) facilitates the interaction between DMC and the catalytic pocket of SIRT3, leading to preferential suppression of SIRT3 activity and consequently sensitizing HeLa cells to robust apoptotic signaling. This inhibition was accompanied by increased SOD2 acetylation and reduced SOD2 abundance, driving accumulation of oxidative stress, which triggers loss of mitochondrial membrane potential (ΔΨm), and pronounced caspase activation. Concomitantly, γ-H2AX nuclear foci formation and dual-phase cell-cycle arrest at the G1/S and G2/M checkpoints were associated with activation of p53/p21 and ATM/Chk2 signaling. In addition, cell migratory capacity was significantly impaired, as evidenced by reduced expression of MMP2 and MMP9. Notably, this inhibition impairs autophagic and mitophagic flux as well as lysosomal function, thereby preventing cytoprotective responses and facilitating cell death. Importantly, enforced SIRT3 overexpression reverses these effects, restores mitochondrial function, reactivates autophagic activity, and attenuates apoptotic cell death. Collectively, our findings identify DMC as a thermosensitive inhibitor of SIRT3 and provide mechanistic insights into its potential to disrupt mitochondrial homeostasis for targeted cancer therapy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
As a possible target for pro- or anti-angiogenic therapy, the process of angiogenesis has become more widely recognized in disease and is essential in normal growth and development. The current study examined the immunological activities of macrophages during angiogenesis in quail embryos. CD68 was used to identify perivascular macrophages, which also retained expression of some stem cell markers, including CD34 and CD117, and also CD21. The macrophages also expressed vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a key promoter of angiogenesis, and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), which degrades matrix components to facilitate the formation of new blood vessels. The growth factor bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) and platelet-derived growth factor receptor-alpha (PDGF-α), which are often associated with mesenchymal cell recruitment and vascularization, were also expressed in the perivascular macrophages. More recently, studies investigating macrophages have become more prominent due to their proposed effects on endothelial cells. Macrophages are also increasingly considered potential targets for pro- or anti-angiogenic therapies, and this research provides insights into protein expression and roles in angiogenesis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Calotropis gigantea (L.) Dryand. has long been used in traditional medicine to treat various disorders. However, its effects on tumor angiogenesis and the underlying molecular mechanisms in hepatocellular carcinoma remain unclear, limiting understanding of its therapeutic significance.This study aimed to investigate the anti-tumor and anti-angiogenic effects of the dichloromethane fraction of C. gigantea stem bark extract (CGD) and its associated molecular changes in a HepG2 xenograft nude mouse model.BALB/c nude mice bearing HepG2 xenografts received intraperitoneal injections of CGD at doses of 2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg three times weekly for 4 weeks. Tumor growth was monitored. Tumor angiogenesis was assessed by immunohistochemical staining for CD31 as an index of tumor microvascular density. The expression levels of HIF-1α, VEGF, VEGFR-2, EGFR, MMP-2, MMP-9, and VE-cadherin, as well as phosphorylated ERK1/2 and AKT, were evaluated by immunohistochemistry.CGD treatment significantly suppressed tumor growth compared to the control group. It reduced the CD31-positive area, indicating decreased tumor vascularization. CGD significantly downregulated the expression of HIF-1α, VEGF, VEGFR-2, EGFR, MMP-2, MMP-9, and VE-cadherin. CGD decreased phosphorylated ERK1/2 and AKT levels, indicating modulation of signaling related to tumor angiogenesis and progression.CGD demonstrates significant anti-tumor and anti-angiogenic effects in HepG2 xenograft mice. The observed effects are associated with the modulation of HIF-1α/VEGF-related angiogenic signaling and reduced phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and AKT. Collectively, these results suggest that CGD has potential as an anti-angiogenic agent for hepatocellular carcinoma.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Nicotinamide (NAM), a precursor for nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+), is widely used as a supplement during different cells culturing. Although its antioxidative and anti-apoptotic properties, the specific effects on bovine embryo quality and implantation potential remain partly explored. The current study aimed to investigate the impact of NAM on developmental competence and quality of bovine embryos, focusing on cell apoptosis, survival, and trophoblast invasion. NAM was treated during in vitro maturation (IVM) and late-stage embryo culture (IVC3; the morula stage embryo), the cleavage and blastocyst formation rates were evaluated on Days 4 and 8 post-fertilization, respectively. Underlying mechanisms affecting embryo quality and invasion potential were examined in developed blastocysts using RT-qPCR, immunofluorescence, reactive oxygen species (ROS) measurement, TUNEL and trophoblast invasion assays. Results showed that the cleavage and blastocyst formation rates were significantly increased in the NAM-treated group relative to controls (83.62 ± 1.38% vs. 80.08 ± 0.52%, and 37.54 ± 1.15% vs. 28.74 ± 0.70%, respectively). Additionally, the in vitro-developed embryos supplemented with NAM during IVM and IVC3 exhibited lower levels of ROS and mRNA of caspase-3, and higher mRNA levels of the survival genes SOD1 and SOD2. Similarly, the DNA fragmentation rate was lower, and the total cell counts and inner cell mass to trophectoderm (ICM:TE) ratios were higher in embryos supplemented with NAM compared to untreated embryos. Furthermore, the MMP2 and MMP9 protein expression and trophoblast invasion rate of blastocysts treated with NAM were enhanced. These findings highlight the potential role of NAM in improving bovine embryo quality and enhancing trophoblast invasive capacity, thereby suggesting an improved implantation potential.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42544586
Porcine cumulus-oocyte complexes (COCs) undergo dynamic morphological and molecular changes during maturation; however, cell type- and stage-dependent transcript patterns of Ras-related factors in cumulus cells and oocytes remain unclear. This study investigated changes in Ras-related factors during porcine in vitro maturation (IVM). Porcine COCs were cultured under IVM conditions supplemented with follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), and epidermal growth factor (EGF). Cumulus cells and oocytes were collected at 0, 22, and 44 h of IVM, and cumulus expansion was monitored using time-lapse imaging. Hormone receptor-related factors, CX43, Ras family members, and their RasGAP and RasGEF regulators were analyzed using RT-PCR and qPCR with band-intensity analysis. Progressive cumulus expansion was observed during IVM. In cumulus cells, R-Ras transcript abundance increased at 22 and 44 h, whereas RASA1 transcript abundance was lower at 44 h. In oocytes, R-Ras and H-Ras transcript abundance decreased during maturation. These findings indicate that selected Ras family members and their regulators exhibit distinct cell type- and stage-dependent transcript patterns during porcine COC maturation. These transcript-level findings provide a basis for future protein-level and functional analyses.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42480857 is a review article
The Arp2/3 complex has long been considered to only assemble branched actin structures in the cell (lamellipodia, endocytic patches, comet tails, and many more). We show for the first time by single-molecule tracking (SMT) that the Arp2/3 complex and SPIN90, which activates Arp2/3 complex to nucleate unbranched filaments, bind to and move in the basal cortex with stress fibers and focal adhesions (FA) that, unlike known sites of Arp2/3 enrichment, employ linear actin bundles. SPIN90 knockout in U2OS cells significantly increases the rate of collective cell migration while decreasing cellular traction (myosin-II and actin speeds) and adhesion (FA size and maturation markers). SPIN90's SH3 domain, similar to its adapter protein Nck1, shows enrichment in FAs, suggesting a possible location for SPIN90-Arp2/3 complex activity. Together, our findings indicate that SPIN90-Arp2/3 nucleated filaments also function in stress fibers where they help define the mechanics of traction and adhesion to regulate cell motility.The Arp2/3 complex, the branched actin nucleator, drives pushing forces in the cytoplasm, yet its diffuse cortical localization has obscured its functions within unbranched structures. In conventional microscopy, associations of molecules with specific structures are impossible to verify when there is little enrichment over the cytoplasm. Whereas other methods fail to provide convincing evidence of such associations, we used single molecule tracking in live cells to identify molecules that track the motions of stress fibers. Thus, we were able to discover that the Arp2/3 complex and SPIN90, proteins whose roles in cell biology have been thus far limited to branched actin networks, directly integrate within the unbranched stress fiber network to promote cell adhesion and traction for cell migration.
Steroid-induced osteonecrosis of the femoral head (SONFH) is the most prevalent type of non-traumatic femoral head necrosis. Exosomes (Exo) secreted from stem cells of human exfoliated deciduous teeth (SHED) play crucial roles in biological processes, particularly in tissue regeneration and repair. Previous studies have demonstrated that exosomes from SHED (SHED-Exo) can alleviate dexamethasone (Dex)-induced osteogenic inhibition in bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs). This study aims to further investigate the molecular mechanism by which SHED-Exo rescues BMSCs osteogenic inhibition. Dex-induced BMSCs were used to construct the SONFH model, and SHED-Exo were used for treatment. Differentially expressed miRNAs (DE miRNAs) were identified by miRNA-seq and miRNA target genes were predicted using the database. Regulation was assessed by transfection of miRNA inhibitor and mimics. Alizarin red staining was used to verify osteogenic differentiation capacity, while qPCR and western blotting were employed to analyze osteogenesis-related proteins (OCN, OPN, and RUNX2), EFNA1, and PI3K/AKT pathways. Modulation using PI3K/AKT inhibitors and EFNA1 small interfering RNAs (siRNA) was performed to probe the molecular mechanism of SHED-Exo therapy. miRNA-seq results identified miR-708-5p as a DE miRNA. qPCR confirmed that its expression was down-regulated after Dex treatment and elevated after SHED-Exo treatment. CNTFR was validated as a miR-708-5p target gene through four database predictions and dual luciferase reporter gene results. Transfection of SHED with miR-708-5p inhibitor and mimics demonstrated that miR-708-5p derived from SHED-Exo negatively regulates CNTFR to promote osteogenesis in BMSCs and increases EFNA1 expression, thereby activating the PI3K/AKT pathway. It was further demonstrated that CNTFR is upstream of EFNA1 and negatively regulates the EFNA1/PI3K/AKT pathway by inhibiting PI3K/AKT and interfering with EFNA1 expression. SHED-Exo carries miR-708-5p into BMSCs, promoting EFNA1 expression by negatively regulating CNTFR, which in turn activates the PI3K/AKT pathway and enhances the osteogenic capacity of BMSCs.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) is the predominant cause of end-stage kidney disease worldwide. Early identification of patients at heightened risk for adverse kidney outcomes remains a critical unmet clinical need.We conducted a prospective cohort study of 918 DKD participants from the UK Biobank. Baseline plasma proteomic profiling quantified 1,463 proteins using Olink proximity extension assays. Three nested Cox proportional hazards models with incremental covariate adjustment identified proteins associated with composite kidney outcomes. To prevent information leakage, all feature selection, hyperparameter optimization, and model development were performed exclusively within the training cohort (70% random split) via a multi-stage pipeline integrating LASSO-Cox regression, Random Survival Forest, Boruta algorithm, and Sequential Forward Selection. XGBoost Cox modeling with SHAP interpretability analysis quantified variable contributions. Predictive performance was validated through Kaplan-Meier survival analysis, 15-year longitudinal trajectory modeling, ROC benchmarking, 10-fold nested cross-validation, and sensitivity analyses restricted to KDIGO-defined DKD. An interactive web application was developed for clinical translation.Of 1,463 proteins examined, 633 demonstrated significant associations with kidney outcomes across all three Cox models. Functional enrichment highlighted immune-inflammatory pathways, PI3K-Akt signaling, and chemokine cascades as central to DKD progression. The machine learning framework identified an 11-protein signature, which was refined to 10 core biomarkers (HLA-E, EFNA1, GPR158, FSTL3, ART3, GM2A, CLEC1A, CKAP4, IFNGR1, EPHA2) following survival and longitudinal trajectory validation. The protein-only model achieved robust discrimination (AUC = 0.808 [95% CI 0.767-0.848] for composite outcomes; AUC = 0.807 [95% CI 0.765-0.848] for renal death), comparable to fully integrated models incorporating demographics and metabolic variables. Systematic benchmarking across 101 algorithm combinations identified LASSO-RSF as optimal (C-index = 0.94 in training; 0.73 in independent testing), with reliable calibration through mid-term follow-up (Integrated Calibration Index = 0.019-0.022). The web-based tool enables real-time, personalized risk stratification.This study establishes a validated 10-protein signature for early prediction of kidney outcomes in DKD. The systematic machine learning framework and deployable web application provide accessible, interpretable risk assessment to support precision nephrology and preemptive clinical intervention.Copyright © 2026 Jiang, Li, Zhang, Wu and Zhao.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42355527 is a review article
The metabolic reprogramming of tumor microenvironment is a critical driver of colorectal cancer (CRC) pathogenesis. In this context, dysregulated lactate metabolism plays a pivotal role in immunosuppression and therapeutic resistance. Integrating single-cell transcriptomics, spatial transcriptomics, and bulk sequencing datasets, this research delineated the lactate metabolic landscape across colorectal cancer (CRC) tumor ecosystems. Single-cell profiling revealed significant metabolic activity in both the epithelial and myeloid compartments. Consequently, a lactate metabolism score (LMscore) was developed, which is based on four core genes (COX15, SLC25A13, COX10, MPC1). An elevated LMscore has been demonstrated to reprogram epithelial developmental trajectories and reconfigure intercellular communication networks, notably through EFNA1-EPHA3-mediated crosstalk with fibroblasts and endothelial cells. Spatial transcriptomics corroborated intimate spatial colocalization and metabolic pathway co-enrichment between lactate-active epithelia and fibroblasts. Clinically, high LMscore independently predicts a decreased overall survival across multiple cohorts and defines a "cold" tumor immune phenotype. This phenotype is characterized by an accumulation of immunosuppressive cells including M2 macrophages and cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) and a reduction in effector T-cell infiltration. This ultimately results in a refractory response to immune checkpoint blockade. Mechanistically, COX15 emerges as a central regulator of lactate metabolic dysregulation, coinciding with fibroblast-derived TGF-β secretion and immunosuppressive niche formation. Functional validation confirms that COX15 targeting suppresses tumor proliferation. This work establishes LMscore as a clinically robust biomarker for prognostication and immunotherapy response prediction, thereby providing a mechanistic foundation for metabolic reprogramming-targeted combinatorial therapies in CRC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42315817 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566099 is a review article
Broader research and translational use of patient-derived organoids (PDOs) in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) remain constrained by complex and costly culture requirements. Here, we developed a conditional transgenic strategy to generate self-sustaining primary PDAC organoids and explored its feasibility for therapeutic evaluation.We established a proof-of-concept PDAC organoid biobank (n = 10). Using a doxycycline-inducible lentiviral Tet-On system, we engineered organoids to express essential cytokines RSPO1 and WNT3A, enabling growth in supplement-depleted media. We then performed exploratory assessments of FOLFIRINOX-mimetic chemotherapy and EPHA2-targeted CAR-T cells in transgenic organoids, together with histopathological and clinicopathological co-analysis.Doxycycline-induced RSPO1/WNT3A expression rescued the impaired growth and passaging caused by exogenous cytokine depletion. In simplified media, transgenic organoids retained patient-specific histological and molecular features. Sensitivity to FOLFIRINOX-mimetic treatment and EPHA2 CAR-T cells varied among different patients, and the in vitro responses showed exploratory concordance with the corresponding clinical courses in a small subset.This conditional transgenic approach reduces culture complexity while preserving key phenotypic and functional characteristics of PDAC organoids, providing a feasible proof-of-concept platform for exploratory evaluation of chemotherapy and immunotherapy responses.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Ultraviolet B (UVB) radiation-induced corneal injury poses a significant public health challenge. However, its underlying molecular mechanisms remain incompletely understood, hindering the development of effective interventions. This study identified a key molecular pathway in UVB-induced corneal damage, revealing that UVB exposure triggers a rapid intracellular burst of reactive oxygen species (ROS), which in turn upregulates and aberrantly activates the receptor tyrosine kinase Ephrin type-A receptor 2 (EphA2), thereby collectively accelerating DNA damage and photoaging in corneal epithelial cells. Based on this mechanism, we developed the natural compound Penicophenone F (PP-F), which was screened and identified from the Arctic fungus Penicillium sp. MYA5, as a novel therapeutic strategy against UVB-induced corneal damage. In vitro and in vivo experiments suggest that PP-F may mediate its therapeutic effects via a dual mechanism. On one hand, it may counteract UVB damage by modulating ROS levels through regulation of endogenous antioxidant enzymes, inhibiting aberrant EphA2 activation, and promoting cellular proliferation and DNA repair. On the other hand, it may upregulate IRF6 to activate the cGAS pathway, which could enhance antioxidant defenses and significantly contribute to the restoration of epithelial barrier integrity and overall corneal physiology. These results underscore the safety and potential of PP-F in treating UVB-induced corneal damage and other oxidative stress-related ocular surface diseases.
The heterogeneity of tumor cells facilitates their dynamic adaptation to tumor microenvironmental pressures throughout progression. Nevertheless, the mechanisms underlying intercellular communication and transformation among heterogeneous tumor cells remain inadequately understood. In this study, we indicate that Ephrin type-A receptor 2 (EphA2) is heterogeneously expressed in gastric cancer (GC) tumor cells, with those exhibiting elevated EphA2 (EphA2High) expression demonstrating enhanced migratory and invasive capabilities. EphA2High cells facilitate the transfer of EphA2 via exosomes, which subsequently localize on the membrane of EphA2Low cells, thereby activating the ERK signaling pathway in a ligand-independent manner. This process promotes the transformation of EphA2Low cells and contributes to the progression of GC. An investigation into the correlation between serum levels and tumor metastasis in patients with GC revealed that those with lymph node metastasis exhibited higher levels of serum exosomal EphA2. This study elucidates the process of dominant group formation within heterogeneous tumor cells and suggests the viability of exosomal EphA2 as a potential biomarker for further clinical investigation.
EphA2 is a tyrosine kinase receptor from the Eph (erythropoietin-producing hepatocellular) family that is involved in several processes associated with regular cellular functions, as well as in different pathological conditions including cancer. EphA2 is up-regulated in many types of tumors, and the process of ligand-triggered receptor endocytosis and the subsequent degradation attract a lot of attention as a means of reducing receptor levels and its pro-oncogenic outcomes. In this context, the intracellular Sam (sterile alpha motif) domain of EphA2 (EphA2-Sam) plays an important role, being the region able to engage protein regulators of receptor endocytosis and stability. Recently, a novel cancer-related interaction involving the E3 ubiquitin ligase RNF5 and EphA2-Sam has been identified. Intriguingly, RNF5 is responsible for lowering receptor stability by targeting it for ubiquitination and consequent degradation. In certain types of breast cancer cells, down-regulation of EphA2 induced by RNF5 overexpression fosters pro-tumorigenic effects while RNF5 silencing and consequent EphA2 amplified regulation induces anticancer outcomes. Immunoprecipitation experiments point out that the membrane-binding domain of RNF5 interacts with EphA2-Sam, but detailed structural information on this protein-protein association is currently missing. To obtain fast insights into structural features governing the molecular recognition between RNF5 and EphA2, we set up an in silico approach combining structure predictions by the artificial intelligence tool AlphaFold and docking techniques. Such computational strategy, coupled with preliminary experimental validation with RNF5 peptide fragments, provides pilot information that can be exploited to develop original structure-based drug discovery approaches to identify novel anticancer compounds able to modulate the EphA2/RNF5 axis.Copyright © 2026 Marian Vincenzi et al.
This study aimed to develop a chitosan‑based nano‑delivery system encapsulating the PE38KDEL‑1F12 immunotoxin (NP‑IMX) and to evaluate its biological performance in breast cancer cells. NP‑IMX nanoparticles were synthesized and characterized, followed by in vitro evaluation in EPHA2‑positive MDA‑MB‑231 breast cancer cells and EPHA2‑negative MCF‑10 A normal breast epithelial cells. Cytotoxicity, cellular uptake, apoptosis, cell‑cycle arrest, migration, drug loading and release, and gene expression (VEGF, p21, Bax, and p53) were assessed. In addition, short‑term in vivo toxicity was evaluated in healthy BALB/c mice. NP‑IMX exhibited very high encapsulation efficiency (~ 99.9%) and pH‑responsive drug release, with approximately 80-85% cumulative release at pH 5.3 compared with 20-25% at pH 7.4. In vitro studies demonstrated enhanced cellular uptake and significantly increased apoptosis (> 80%), G2/M cell‑cycle arrest (~ 59%), and migration inhibition in MDA‑MB‑231 cells compared with the free immunotoxin. NP‑IMX showed higher cytotoxicity toward cancer cells while maintaining minimal toxicity in MCF‑10 A cells. Gene expression analysis revealed upregulation of p53, p21, and Bax and downregulation of VEGF in cancer cells. In vivo toxicity studies indicated reduced systemic toxicity of NP‑IMX compared with free immunotoxin, based on biochemical and histopathological analyses. This study demonstrates that chitosan‑based nano‑encapsulation of the PE38KDEL‑1F12 immunotoxin enhances cancer‑selective in vitro antitumor activity while reducing systemic toxicity in healthy animals. Although these findings support the potential of NP‑IMX as a targeted nano‑immunotoxin platform, further in vivo efficacy studies using tumor‑bearing models are required to confirm its therapeutic relevance.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
In this study, we evaluated the in silico and in vitro anticancer activity of the antimicrobial peptide epinecidin-1 (Epi-1) and its lysine-substituted variants (Variant-1 (Var-1) & Variant-2 (Var-2)). Computational docking demonstrated energetically favourable and structurally consistent interactions between the peptides and cancer-associated receptors (MerTK (PDB ID: 7OLX), EphA3 (PDB ID: 2QO9), TGF-β receptor I/ ALK5 (PDB ID: 3TZM), TrkA / NTRK1 (PDB ID: 4AOJ), and progesterone receptor (PDB ID: 1A28)), with distinct binding orientations and interaction profiles observed across the variants. Molecular dynamics simulation further substantiated these findings by confirming the stability of the selected receptor-ligand complex, with consistent root mean square deviation (RMSD), root mean square fluctuation (RMSF), radius of gyration (Rg), solvent-accessible surface area (SASA), and intermolecular hydrogen-bond interactions profiles indicating sustained interaction integrity under dynamic conditions. The in vitro antiproliferative activity of Epi-1 and its variants was assessed by MTT assays against A549, HeLa, HepG2, IMR-32 and MCF-7 cell lines. Both variants exhibited a two- to four-fold increase in cytotoxic activity compared with native Epi-1. We also evaluated the combinational activity of each peptide with doxorubicin, where peptide-doxorubicin treatments resulted in effective cancer cell killing at reduced drug concentrations relative to individual treatments, the Var-2 + doxorubicin combination reduced cancer cell survival to below 10% at a combined concentration of 1 µg/mL (0.5 µg/mL peptide + 0.5 µg/mL doxorubicin), compared with ~ 30% survival in doxorubicin alone. This has been added alongside the existing two- to four-fold cytotoxicity enhancement of the variants over wild-type Epi-1, to better convey the impact of the synergistic response. While inducing selective lysis in cancer cells, the peptides exhibited minimal cytotoxicity toward non-cancerous HEK 293 cells, indicating improved therapeutic selectivity. DCFH-DA staining confirmed intracellular reactive oxygen species generation, and Acridine Orange/Ethidium Bromide (AO/EtBr) staining demonstrated apoptosis as the predominant mode of cell death across the cancer cell lines, although Var-1 induced necrotic death in HepG2 cells.© 2026. The Author(s).
Epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) plays crucial roles in tumor progression, including cancer cell migration. Non-canonical phosphorylation of the receptor tyrosine kinase EphA2 at Ser-897 via the ERK-RSK pathway also induces cancer cell migration. This non-canonically phosphorylated form of EphA2 has been observed in mesenchymal cells and reported to maintain the functional properties of mesenchymal cells; however, the mechanism of this phosphorylation during EMT remains unclear. We herein demonstrated that level of Ser-897-phosphorylated EphA2 was increased during EMT through the FGFR1-ERK-RSK pathway. EphA2 mRNA expression was also induced, suggesting its modulation by Snail, Slug, and ZEB1. Furthermore, the FGFR1-EphA2 axis promoted cell motility and contributed to poor prognosis in lung adenocarcinoma. Collectively, these results suggest the importance of FGFR1 as a regulator of non-canonical EphA2 activation during EMT.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Staphylococcus aureus is a major opportunistic pathogen in humans; airborne exposure to this bacterium is associated with increased respiratory disease incidence. The airway epithelium, serving as the primary barrier against inhaled pathogens, is particularly vulnerable to bacterial invasion. However, the underlying mechanisms and relevant biomarkers for this exposure remain underexplored. In this study, we evaluated the toxic effect mechanisms and biomarkers of S. aureus aerosol exposure to human bronchial epithelial (16HBE) cells at the air-liquid interface using microRNA (miRNA) sequencing. We found that exposure to aerosols containing 3.21 × 105 to 6.54 × 106 CFU/m3S. aureus impaired cell viability and proliferation, induced mitochondrial damage, and triggered inflammation by upregulating IFN-γ expression. The bacterium secreted pore-forming toxins, coagulases, nucleases, enterotoxins, and β-hemolysins to lyse cells and induced a cytokine storm by modulating the expression of hla, coa, nuc, sea, and hlb genes. 16HBE cells primarily upregulated Toll-like receptors (TLR1 and TLR5), mucins (MUC1), and epidermal growth factor receptors (KGF7 and TEP1) to recognize invasion, activate the immune response, and protect the cell membrane. miRNA sequencing suggested that medium-concentration exposure induced more differentially expressed genes (DEGs), particularly downregulated DEGs, than other concentrations. Twelve miRNAs uniquely shared across the exposure groups were considered potential biomarkers of S. aureus aerosol exposure. Regulatory networks analysis showed that miR-19a-3p, miR-18a-5p, miR-106b-5p, and miR-142-5p could influence cancer-related pathways and the MAPK signaling pathway by targeting genes such as CRK, NCOA3, MAPK1, and TGFR2 and may serve as biomarkers of 16HBE cell damage. Overall, this study elucidates the injury mechanisms and potential biomarkers of S. aureus aerosol exposure in respiratory cells, advances the understanding of airborne pathogen-induced toxicity.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This paper introduces an approach for inferring the gene regulatory networks in vortioxetine-induced glioblastoma cells to investigate vortioxetine's systemic effects. The approach uses an ordinary differential equation (ODE)-based inverse problem to evaluate the drug-induced gene interactions within the GLIOMA and ERBB pathways, which are deeply intertwined in cancers, by using time-series datasets. Time-series datasets were generated in triplicate at 0, 3, 6, 9, 12, and 24 h. The results of the ERBB pathway confirmed that PIK3R5 was commonly activated, while JUN, as a proto-oncogene in glioblastoma, was inhibited by genes across all three datasets. In particular, PIK3R5 was commonly activated by PAK6 in all three datasets. The results of the GLIOMA pathway confirmed that CALML6 was commonly activated, while CDK4 and CCND1, which are mostly overexpressed in human cancers, were inhibited across all three datasets. Additionally, an analysis of the independent datasets generated at 6 and 22 h after the vortioxetine injection identified the most distinct variable genes between the two time points: CRK (1.96) and JUN (-3.02) for the ERBB signaling pathway, and BRAF (1.30) and MAP2K2 (-1.92) for the GLIOMA pathway. We conclude that vortioxetine, an antidepressant, decreases JUN, a proto-oncogene involved in the ERBB signaling pathway, and CCND1, another proto-oncogene involved in the GLIOMA pathway, over time in glioblastoma cells.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42534835 is a review article
Nipah virus (NiV) is a highly lethal zoonotic pathogen with significant pandemic potential, for which no approved antiviral therapies are currently available. Viral entry is mediated by the interaction between the NiV attachment glycoprotein (NiV-G) and host ephrin receptors, particularly ephrin-B2 (EFNB2) and ephrin-B3 (EFNB3), making this interface an attractive therapeutic target. In this study, we evaluated a set of structurally related flavonoids, apigenin, cynaroside, and lonicerin, as potential modulators of the EFNB2-NiV-G and EFNB3-NiV-G interactions. These compounds were selected based on their structural similarity, reported antiviral activity, chemical diversity, and favorable drug-like properties. Apigenin was employed as a reference scaffold due to its well-characterized pharmacological profile and its suitability for guiding analog-based compound selection. Apigenin served as a reference scaffold for selecting structurally related flavonoids, which were analyzed through density functional theory optimization, molecular docking, pharmacokinetic and toxicity predictions, molecular dynamics simulations, and binding free energy calculations. These flavonoids demonstrated high predicted affinity for both the EFNB2-NiV-G and EFNB3-NiV-G interfaces. According to results, these compounds consistently interacted with residues known to play a critical role in receptor recognition, with special emphasis on leucine and tryptophan residues within the G-H loop. These residues are well established as key determinants in the entry process of Nipah virus (NiV) into host cells, highlighting the potential relevance of these flavonoid-protein interactions. Molecular dynamics analyses indicated that flavonoid binding reduced the affinity and the conformational flexibility at the receptor-glycoprotein interfaces and decreased the stability of the complexes. Pharmacokinetic and toxicity predictions suggested favorable drug-like properties for the flavonoids, with apigenin displaying the most balanced profile. Collectively, these results support the potential of selected flavonoids as modulators of EFNB2-NiV-G and EFNB3-NiV-G interactions and provide a rationale for their prioritization in experimental studies aimed at developing scaffolds for the modulation of viral entry against Nipah virus.
Next-generation sequencing has accelerated the discovery of novel putative viruses in wildlife reservoirs, while identifying those with zoonotic potential remains challenging. In this study, we report the identification and characterization of Ailong virus, a novel putative henipavirus from previous bat metagenomes in China that utilizes human ephrin B2 (EFNB2) and EFNB3 as functional receptors. Using an integrated approach combining phylogenetic analysis, pseudotyped virus entry assays, antibody blockade assays, and structural modeling, we demonstrate that Ailong virus glycoprotein binds human EFNB2 and EFNB3 with high specificity, mediating pseudovirus entry into both human neuronal and respiratory epithelial cells. Structural analysis revealed the Ailong virus glycoprotein-EFNB2 interface closely resembling that of Nipah virus (NiV), with conservation of all critical receptor-binding residues. Moreover, AiV encodes an exceptionally large phosphoprotein, 1,033 amino acids in length, which is larger than any other known phosphoprotein in the subfamily Paramyxoviridae. Given its receptor usage, structural similarities to NiV, and efficient entry in human airway epithelia, Ailong virus is believed to pose a spillover risk.Copyright: © 2026 Dai et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
This study aimed to investigate the effects of rumen fluid transplantation (RFT) on the growth and development of the longissimus dorsi muscle in female Xizang sheep. After RFT, muscle lightness differed significantly between the two groups, with the LDC group showing significantly higher lightness than the LDT group. In contrast, no significant differences were observed between groups in other muscle phenotypic traits, including drip loss, pH, cooking loss, shear force, redness, and yellowness. Antioxidant-related indices (SOD, GSH-PX, MDA, CAT, and T-AOC) also showed no significant differences between groups. Histological analysis revealed that muscle fiber length, width, and density were significantly greater in the experimental group than in the control group. Transcriptomic analysis identified 515 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), of which 419 were downregulated. KEGG analysis indicated that genes involved in muscle development-related pathways, such as cell adhesion and the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, were predominantly downregulated. Key serum metabolites (L-kynurenine, IPA, allantoin, and propionylcarnitine) showed highly significant positive correlations with muscle fiber growth indices. In contrast, metabolites such as l-carnitine, acetylcarnitine, and citrulline were negatively correlated with muscle fiber growth, but positively correlated with the expression of muscle structure-related genes (COL11A1 and EFNA5) and with meat lightness. Overall, this study provides new insights into the potential molecular basis by which RFT influences muscle growth and development. However, the mechanisms by which RFT affects muscle development and meat quality-related traits remain unclear and warrant further investigation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
An accumulation of evidence underscores the critical importance of both hypoxia and the immune microenvironment in driving the progression of osteosarcoma. Despite advancements in therapeutic strategies, osteosarcoma continues to pose a formidable challenge due to its aggressive nature and high metastatic potential. Nonetheless, the identification of reliable gene signatures that combine information on hypoxia and immune status to predict osteosarcoma prognosis remains an unmet need.To gain a deeper understanding of the impact of hypoxia on the invasion of osteosarcoma, we devised a data-driven modeling framework, termed Cellular Hypoxia Prediction Framework (CHPF), which integrates single-cell transcriptome profiling with hypoxia gene signatures to predict cellular hypoxia status. We applied dimensionality reduction, clustering, and various analytical tools such as WGCNA, GO enrichment, and CellChat for cell-cell communication analysis.We conducted a comprehensive analysis of the hypoxia status landscape within osteosarcoma cells and observed a distinct pattern, where hypoxic cells were predominantly confined to the tumor core region. Our analysis revealed distinct hypoxic subpopulations within osteosarcoma, with significant overexpression of genes like FGFBP2 and S100A1 in hypoxic cells. Remarkably, our investigation delved into the functional heterogeneity of tumor cells and uncovered a hypoxic subpopulation that exhibited a remarkably high invasive potential. We identified key genes (RPS28, ZC3HAV1, RPS8, S100A13, SERPINH1, EFNA5, RPL37A, USP11) that are associated with patient prognosis and developed a predictive model, which categorized patients based on their risk profiles. Hypoxia upregulates SERPINH1 expression in osteosarcoma cells in a HIF‑1α‑dependent manner, promotes proliferation and invasion, and SERPINH1 knockdown effectively reverses these hypoxia‑induced malignant phenotypes.Genes associated with hypoxia play a pivotal role in the biology of osteosarcoma, significantly impacting tumor behavior and patient survival outcomes. Our research findings offer valuable insights into the underlying mechanisms of osteosarcoma and could potentially pave the way for the development of innovative therapeutic approaches that specifically target the hypoxic tumor microenvironment.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Dysregulation in glycolysis within the tumor microenvironment is a hallmark in the context of colorectal cancer (CRC). We aimed to identify critical drivers of glycolysis in CRC and decipher the underlying mechanism.Through combined gene interference in CRC cells using lentivirus and treatment with glycolysis activator DASA-58, we measured glycolytic flux to evaluate how molecular mechanisms influence tumor cell activity via glycolysis. CRC cells were cocultured with NK and CD8+ T cells to analyze the anti-tumor immune response. A patient-derived xenograft mouse model and a CMT93 cell-derived allograft mouse model were developed for analyzing CRC growth, metastasis, and immune evasion.EFNA3 was elevated in CRC tissues and cell lines. The glycolytic activity, proliferative, migratory, invasive, and pro-angiogenic effects of the CRC cells were reduced, and the anti-tumor response of the CD8+ T and NK cells was enhanced after EFNA3 knockdown in CRC cells. Tumors formed by CMT93 cells with EFNA3 knockdown exhibited reduced metastasis and an increased proportion of anti-tumor immune cells infiltrated. Overexpression of KLF5 promoted EFNA3 transcription, and SCAF8 enhanced KLF5 mRNA stability. Downregulation of PRKN in CRC enhanced the SCAF8 protein expression through ubiquitination. PRKN upregulation blocked glycolysis and suppressed the malignant behavior of CRC cells, whereas the anticancer ability of PRKN was reversed by SCAF8/KLF5/EFNA3 overexpression.Activating the E3 ubiquitin ligase activity of PRKN to suppress EFNA3 expression represents a promising therapeutic strategy for the clinical treatment of CRC.© 2026. The Author(s).
The Hedgehog signaling pathway has played a key role promoting angiogenesis and neurogenesis in ischemic stroke. To harness the therapeutic potential of Hedgehog signaling in stroke, we investigated the function and potential clinic applications of 20(S)-hydroxycholesterol, a natural small-molecule agonist of Smoothened in the Hedgehog pathway, with respect to its capacity to promote post-stroke neuroprotection, angiogenesis, and cerebrovascular plasticity.In vitro, hypoxia conditions were simulated in brain microvascular endothelial bEnd.3 cells using an oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R) model. Cell migration capability was evaluated by scratch assay and transwell assay. Endothelial cell angiogenic capacity was evaluated through tube formation assays. Male C57BL/6 J mice were subjected to middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) to establish an ischemic stroke animal model. Neurological deficits were evaluated using the mNSS method. Cerebral infarct volume was measured using TTC staining. The expression levels of Hedgehog signaling pathway and angiogenesis-related proteins were evaluated by immunofluorescence.Our findings demonstrated that 20(S)-hydroxycholesterol enhanced cell viability, cell migration and tube formation capacity of bEnd.3 cells under OGD/R treatment. In addition, 20(S)-hydroxycholesterol up-regulated the expression of Smoothened and activated Gli transcription factors activity as well as angiogenesis-related genes including Angpt1, Efna5, and Cd31. Moreover. we discovered that 20(S)-hydroxycholesterol significantly reduced cerebral infarct volume and neurological deficits in MCAO model mice.20(S)-hydroxycholesterol activates the Hedgehog signaling pathway in ischemic models. It exhibits neuroprotection functions after stroke associated with neuronal angiogenesis and vascular plasticity. This study highlights the therapeutic potential of 20(S)-hydroxycholesterol as a novel agent for ischemic stroke recovery.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
Lung cancer is a leading cause of cancer-related mortality, necessitating accurate prognostic assessment and optimized treatment. Telomerase-related genes are pivotal in tumor development, yet their prognostic value and mechanisms within the lung cancer tumor microenvironment (TME) remain unclear.We analyzed telomerase-related gene mutations in lung cancer (TCGA) and identified eight key prognostic genes (INMT, ALDH3A2, OGDHL, TDO2, EFNA3, STAT1, EHHADH, AANAT) from seven public datasets via Cox regression. A robust prognostic risk model was built and validated across independent cohorts. TME associations were explored using IPS, ESTIMATE scores, and immune infiltration analyses. EHHADH's functional role was validated via immunohistochemistry, in vitro knockdown, and single-cell RNA sequencing.Our model demonstrated strong predictive performance and consistently outperformed existing prognostic signatures across multiple datasets. Importantly, low-risk patients exhibited an "immune-hot" phenotype with higher IPS scores and enhanced immune cell infiltration, suggesting potential sensitivity to immunotherapy. In contrast, high-risk patients displayed an immunosuppressive microenvironment. Among the model genes, EHHADH emerged as a key oncogenic driver, positively associated with risk score and poor survival. Functional assays revealed that EHHADH promotes tumor cell migration while reducing adhesion. Single-cell analysis further demonstrated that EHHADH is predominantly expressed in epithelial cells and is associated with an "immune-desert" TME characterized by reduced immune infiltration.This study establishes a clinically relevant telomerase-related gene signature that enables effective risk stratification and provides insights into tumor-immune interactions in lung cancer. Notably, EHHADH is identified as a potential therapeutic target that contributes to immune evasion and tumor progression. These findings offer a foundation for personalized prognostic assessment and suggest that targeting EHHADH may enhance the efficacy of immunotherapy in lung cancer patients.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Both rare and common variants in the SRY-Box Transcription Factor 17 (SOX17) locus are associated with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). SOX17 dysregulation leads to pulmonary artery endothelial cell (PAEC) dysfunction and the obstructive remodelling that characterises PAH.Impaired SOX17 expression contributes to the pathogenesis of PAH. Restoring the function of SOX17 or its downstream targets using compounds that mimic its transcriptomic signature will rescue PAEC dysfunction and prevent PAH development.We defined thousands of genes with direct SOX17 genomic binding sites and identified important potential binding partners, including ETS-transcription factors such as ERG by ChIP-seq in PAECs. Through the integration of three PAEC RNA-seq datasets involving overexpression and silencing of SOX17, we defined a robust SOX17 transcriptomic signature. In PAH patients, circulating plasma protein levels of 10 SOX17 signature genes were associated with the SOX17 common risk variants. This included EFNB2 and UNC5B; knockdown of these genes altered the viability and apoptosis of PAECs in response to TNFα treatment. The drug-transcriptome database Connectivity Map (CMap) was used to predict novel potential therapeutic compounds to correct the SOX17 transcriptomic signature. Five compounds were selected for in vitro testing and were able to partially reinstate SOX17 target gene expression in PAECs. One compound, BX-912, was selected for in vivo testing as it corrected the levels of multiple target genes, including suppressing Runt-related transcription factor-1 (RUNX1). BX-912 blocked the development of pulmonary hypertension in mice lacking the SOX17 enhancer associated with human disease.We have demonstrated the therapeutic potential of targeting SOX17 in PAH through correction of its gene targets, identifying BX-912 as a lead compound with in vivo efficacy.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) poses a major global health challenge due to its high mortality and recurrence, necessitating continuous research into biomarkers for better diagnosis and treatment.Gene expression and clinical data from HCC patients were sourced from TCGA, with the GSE14520 dataset used for validation. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between HCC and normal tissues were identified. Patients were randomly divided into training and testing groups using a repeated sampling strategy, and various regression analyses were conducted to develop a prognostic gene signature. The four-gene signature's prognostic ability was assessed using ROC curves, Kaplan-Meier analysis, multivariate Cox regression, and a nomogram, with further validation in the GSE76427 and ICGC cohorts.A four-gene signature (EFNA4, MMP1, NEIL3, TXNRD1) was developed for predicting HCC prognosis. The GSE14520 database confirmed these genes were overexpressed in HCC tissues (p < 0.001). Immunohistochemical (IHC) analysis revealed that EFNA4, MMP1, and TXNRD1 protein levels were significantly elevated in HCC compared to nearby normal tissues (p < 0.05), and the risk score successfully pinpointed high-risk patients with lower overall survival (p < 0.001). As an independent prognostic factor for HCC, the risk score was used alongside the stage to develop a nomogram, which surpassed the predictive ability of each factor individually for 1-, 3-, and 5-year survival rates (AUCs > 0.7). The nomogram's predictions matched observed outcomes well in the entire cohort. Functional analysis linked cell cycle and pyrimidine metabolism pathways to HCC development.Our study developed a new four-gene model combined with clinical parameters to effectively predict HCC prognosis, offering a reliable tool for clinicians and a foundation for future mechanistic investigation.© 2026. The Author(s).
EphA4 signaling is a key negative regulator of axonal regeneration and a genetic modifier of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), making EphA4 an attractive but mechanistically underexplored therapeutic target. Although EphA4-targeting nanobodies have shown inhibitory potential, the structural principles governing their binding and inhibitory mechanisms remain largely unknown. Here, we report high-resolution crystal structures of the EphA4 ligand-binding domain (LBD) in complex with four nanobodies (Nb50, Nb53, Nb57, and Nb60), resolved at 1.34-2.21 Å. Nb50, Nb53, and Nb57 competitively engage the canonical ephrin-binding pocket through deep CDR3 insertion, directly mimicking ephrin recognition. In contrast, Nb60 adopts a previously unrecognized binding mode, contacting two EphA4 molecules at noncanonical sites in the crystal structure through framework-dominated interactions and supporting a structural model for steric and allosteric restriction of ephrin access. Integrated biophysical analyses reveal distinct thermodynamic and kinetic signatures underlying these binding mechanisms. Together, our findings uncover unexpected structural diversity in nanobody-mediated EphA4 recognition and provide a framework for rational development of EphA4-targeted modulators for ALS and related neurodegenerative conditions.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42527189
BackgroundDifferential expression of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) in brain, serum, and blood show strong potential to distinguish Alzheimer's disease (AD) from healthy controls.ObjectiveTo explore whether lncRNA signatures delineate AD pathology and map to distinct, multidimensional cognitive domains, enhancing specificity in assessing AD severity and progression.MethodsWe profiled 29,603 lncRNAs transcripts in blood samples from 15 AD patients and 15 healthy controls, alongside comprehensive neuropsychological assessments. Generalized Linear Models and Predictive Power Score analyses, with statistical prioritization, identified lncRNAs associated to AD neuropsychological architecture.ResultsSeveral lncRNAs share strongly associated with cognitive performance and AD severity, mapping to genes involved in key AD-related molecular processes, including synaptic and neurotransmitter regulation (e.g., EPHB1, CHRNA4, TEAD1), protein homeostasis and Aβ pathology (e.g., FBXL2, FAM221A, APP), mitochondrial function and cellular stress (e.g., VDAC3, PPT2-EGFL8), neuroinflammation and immune regulation (e.g., TEAD1, EMX2OS, LY6E-DT), epigenetic and transcriptional control (e.g., PRDM2, DLEU1, FIRRE), neuronal excitability (e.g., KCNJ14), and neuroprotection and synaptic plasticity (e.g., SIL1). Novel associations included ferroptosis, DNA stability, microtubule dynamics, and dendritic orientation (e.g., BTB3, DICER1, GNG7, IBA57, NEAT1, POT1, SRD5A3).ConclusionsWe identify candidate lncRNA signatures that may serve as potential biomarkers and enhance our understanding of the molecular basis of the cognitive architecture in AD, opening new avenues for biomarker identification and targeted therapeutic strategies development. Validation in larger, diverse cohorts is essential to confirm their mechanistic contributions to AD.
Leptomeningeal collaterals form a critical vascular network that enlarges to support retrograde reperfusion after ischemic stroke, yet the cellular mechanisms governing their structural plasticity remain poorly defined. Here we identify an immune-responsive vascular niche and uncover a central role for bone marrow-derived monocytes in regulating collateral remodeling.GFP (green fluorescent protein)+ bone marrow chimeric mice and inducible monocyte-specific Ccr2-CreERT2/EphA4f/f and Ccr2-CreERT2/EphA4f/f/Tie2f/f mice underwent permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion to assess monocyte recruitment, collateral remodeling, cerebral blood flow, infarct volume, and functional recovery. Mechanistic studies evaluated EphA4 (ephrin receptor A4)/Tie2-PI3K (phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase) α signaling in macrophages, while serum sTie2 (soluble Tie2) levels and immune transcriptomic profiles were analyzed in patients with acute large vessel occlusion and correlated with angiographic collateral grade.We observed rapid recruitment of EphA4-expressing monocytes to pial collateral vessels after permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion. EphA4 knockout chimeric mice show a marked increase in monocyte recruitment, enhanced collateral diameters, improved cerebral blood flow, reduced infarct volume, and accelerated motor recovery. EphA4-null macrophages exhibited elevated Tie2, p-Akt, and PI3Kα, a phenotype reversed by PI3Kα inhibition or sTie2. We further show enhanced permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion-induced collateral enlargement, neuroprotection, and monocyte recruitment using Ccr2-CreERT2/EphA4f/f mice, which is attenuated in Ccr2-CreERT2/EphA4f/f/Tie2f/f double-knockout mice. Notably, we find that serum sTie2 levels are elevated in human patients with large vessel occlusion, and these levels correlate with improved digital subtraction angiography collateral scoring and key immune-specific bulk transcriptomic changes.Together, these findings establish immune cell-intrinsic EphA4/Tie2 signaling as a key regulator of leptomeningeal collateral enlargement and reveal a therapeutic axis for augmenting perfusion after stroke.
Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) is a common, dose-limiting toxicity of cancer treatment, yet reliable biomarkers to predict individual susceptibility remain lacking. Germline genetic variation has been widely investigated as a potential contributor to CIPN risk; however, the consistency and clinical utility of these associations remain unclear. We performed a systematic review of genetic association studies evaluating CIPN across neurotoxic chemotherapies. PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, and the Cochrane Library were searched (April 2025) for human studies assessing germline variants in relation to clinician- or patient-reported CIPN. Eligible studies were identified in four major drug classes: vincristine, taxanes, platinum agents, and bortezomib. Study characteristics, phenotyping approaches, ancestry, and variant-level data were extracted, and study quality was assessed using Q-Genie. Meta-analysis was not performed due to substantial heterogeneity in study design and outcome measures. 72 studies were included, predominantly involving cohorts of European ancestry. The most consistently replicated loci were CEP72 and ETAA1 for vincristine-induced neuropathy; EPHA5, FGD4, and FZD3 for taxane-induced neuropathy; and ABC transporter genes and GSTP1 for platinum-induced neuropathy. For bortezomib, associations involving TRPV1, DNA repair pathways, and inflammatory signalling showed emerging but largely non-replicated evidence. Across studies, marked heterogeneity in CIPN definitions, phenotyping instruments, statistical approaches, and effect allele reporting limited comparability and reproducibility. Collectively, these findings indicate that current pharmacogenomic approaches to CIPN are constrained by poor replication, population bias, and inconsistent methodology, which hinder translation into clinically actionable biomarkers. Future progress will require harmonised phenotyping, multi-ancestry genome-wide studies, and integration of functional validation to enable robust risk stratification and precision oncology approaches to CIPN.Identifier PROSPERO [CRD42025635757].Copyright © 2026 Maganti, Rankothge, Sakadales, Kok, Britton, Rao, Shatunova, Shimell, Zambrano, Park, Schweitzer, Laakso, Yengo, Vetter and Starobova.
Circadian disruption affects multiple aspects of human health, but the genetic architecture of individual susceptibility remains unclear. We examined the genetics of the Circadian Imbalance Index (CII), an additive 0-5 score combining evening chronotype, short/long sleep, high neuroticism, atypical caffeinated coffee intake, and low vitamin D.We ran a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of CII in 312,935 European-ancestry UK Biobank participants, compared signals with component-specific and leave-one-component-out (LOCO) GWASs, and tested sex and shift work interactions. CII polygenic score (PRS) PheWAS analyses were evaluated in Mass General Brigham Biobank (N = 50,908) and All of US (N = 98,182), with component-weighted PRS sensitivity analyses. Replication was assessed in Nurses' Health Study II women (N = 11,344). We estimated genetic correlations and performed bidirectional two-sample Mendelian randomisation (MR) with MR-Egger, weighted median and LOCO sensitivity analyses.We identified 27 loci mapping to 72 genes, including genes with reported links to circadian regulation or circadian-related pathways, such as CALCA, DHCR7, KDM5A, HAL, and CRX. Five genes (EPHB1, SERPING1, C12orf74, PLEKHG7, and EEA1) were observed in the CII analysis but not in component-specific analyses. LOCO analyses indicated that the CII genetic signal was not reducible to any single component. The CII PRS was associated with metabolic and psychiatric phenotypes. CII was genetically correlated with insomnia, mood swings, body mass index, type 2 diabetes, coronary artery disease, and myocardial infarction. MR analyses provided suggestive directional evidence, strongest for reverse associations of mood swings and coronary artery disease with CII.The CII captures a polygenic composite susceptibility signal associated with cardiometabolic and mood outcomes, with suggestive evidence of directional relationships.European Research Council Advanced Grant CLOCKrisk (101053225).Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
EphrinB2 and its receptor EphB4 have been reported to play a crucial role in the development of the cardiovascular system, and the process of coronary artery disease (CAD) is closely related to angiogenesis. The aim of this study is to identify and analyze the therapeutic value of the EphrinB2/EphB4 signaling pathway and angiogenesis-related biomarkers.The CAD chip data (GSE42148) was used for differential analysis to identify differently expressed genes (DEGs). Key module genes associated with CAD were identified using WGCNA. Machine learning and expression validation were executed for screening biomarkers. In addition, the biological functions of biomarkers were explored using enrichment analyses. Finally, the diagnostic and therapeutic value of biomarkers was explored through immune infiltration analysis and drug prediction.Totally, 927 DEGs were identified in CAD and control groups. A total of 1,605 key CAD-related module genes were obtained for subsequent analyses. Then, PTX3, DLL4, and CITED4 were identified as biomarkers. Enrichment analysis suggested that three biomarkers were associated with allograft rejection. Analysis of 28 immune cell infiltrates revealed that CD56dim natural killer cell, eosinophil, mast cell, and MDSC etc. were significantly different between CAD and control groups. Finally, small-molecule drugs, notably simvastatin and calcitriol, were predicted and validated via molecular docking (binding energies < -6.0 kcal/mol) to have a potential therapeutic role in CAD by targeting PTX3 and CITED4, respectively.We obtained three EphrinB2/EphB4 signaling pathway and angiogenesis-related biomarkers (PTX3, DLL4, and CITED4) linked with CAD, which provide new references for the treatment of CAD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Tumor metastasis is a leading cause of patient mortality, with tumor dissemination and organotropism representing critical yet complex aspects of tumor biology that involve clonal selection and evolutionary dynamics. Current experimental models inadequately recapitulate the spatiotemporal dissemination and phenotypic heterogeneity of human cancers, highlighting a critical need for more physiologically relevant preclinical platforms. In this study, we utilized a kidney-tropic primary extranodal lymphoma model to explore the role of EFNB1 in lymphoma dissemination across two distinct mouse strains, C57BL/6J and C57BL/10J. Intriguingly, EFNB1-overexpressing lymphoma cells displayed markedly different progression rates and colonization patterns in these strains. EFNB1-null and EFNB1-high lymphomas derived from the two strains underwent distinct clonal selection and exhibited significant transcriptomic heterogeneity, including RNA base substitutions, as well as differential expression of nuclear histone genes and mitochondrial respiratory chain genes. Notably, clonal origin alone did not determine lymphoma organotropism. Collectively, this study establishes a readily reproducible extranodal lymphoma model and demonstrates that host heterogeneity can reshape transcriptional heterogeneity, drive tumor clonal selection, and ultimately dictate organotropism. These findings suggest that host heterogeneity may serve as a valuable prognostic indicator for lymphoma.© 2026. The Author(s).
The treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is severely hampered by the blood-brain barrier (BBB), which limits the delivery of therapeutic agents like donepezil (DPZ), an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor. While DPZ has multi-faceted benefits, its clinical efficacy is constrained by poor BBB penetration, requiring high doses that lead to significant side effects. To overcome this, we developed a brain-targeted nanotherapeutic utilizing apoferritin (AFn) nanoparticles loaded with DPZ (AFn-DPZ). We demonstrate that this platform, by binding to the EphB1 receptor on the blood-brain barrier, enables transient and reversible opening of the blood-brain barrier, thereby facilitating efficient and targeted drug delivery. Following intravenous administration in an AD mouse model, AFn-DPZ exhibited enhanced brain accumulation and sustained release of DPZ. This targeted delivery inhibited acetylcholinesterase activity, reduced amyloid plaque burden, alleviated neuroinflammation, attenuated oxidative damage, restored mitochondrial function, and upregulated the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Consequently, AFn-DPZ treatment significantly improved cognitive performance compared to free DPZ. Our findings establish EphB1-mediated facilitation of BBB traversal as a promising strategy for enhancing nanotherapeutic delivery to the brain, offering a potent approach to address the complex pathology of AD.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42403364 is a review article
YTH domain-containing protein 1 (YTHDC1) is a nuclear m6A reader with well-known roles in mRNA splicing, nuclear mRNA export, and DNA damage response. Although over 44 phosphosites, including those within the YTH domain, are detected in phosphoproteomic datasets, the phosphoregulatory mechanism that governs YTHDC1 function remains unknown.To delineate the phosphoregulatory landscape of YTHDC1, we conducted an integrative analysis of large-scale human phosphoproteomic datasets. The phosphosites were ranked according to their frequency of occurrence, and most recurrent sites were considered predominant. To explore their biological significance, we combined co-phosphorylation analysis with upstream kinase prediction and protein-interaction network mapping.Three phosphosites, S308 and S146 located in the intrinsically disordered regions and S424 in the YTH domain, were identified as predominantly perturbed across datasets. Functional enrichment analysis of phosphosites in other proteins (PsOPs) co-regulated with these YTHDC1 phosphosites revealed their potential association with mRNA processing and splicing. Considering that no kinases are validated for these sites, phosphomotif-based analysis identified upstream kinases such as MAPK14, CDK7, AKT1, and PAK1. Annotation of phosphosites in these kinases co-regulated with the predominant YTHDC1 phosphosites demonstrated their association with kinase activity, reiterating their potential role as upstream kinases. The PsOPs, including these kinases, as well as many validated binary interactors associated with splicing-related functions, were enriched in the YTHDC1 phosphoregulatory network. Notably, 30 of the co-regulated PsOPs were enriched in pathways that are linked to carcinogenesis, and 4 were in DNA repair inhibition, thereby corroborating their possible role in phosphorylation-dependent signaling associated with cancer.Considering that targeted molecular biology experiments to explore the role of multiple phosphosites are challenging, our approach provides a suitable framework to infer phospho-site centric regulatory networks. Current findings suggest a putative role of YTHDC1 and its predominant phosphosites in RNA splicing and highlight its regulatory potential in tumor-associated signaling networks.Copyright © 2026 Shaji, John, Subair, Thomas, Sambreena, Varghese, Gopalakrishnan, Gopalakrishnan, Krishna, Raju and Soman.
Intramuscular fat content is a key determinant of pork quality, influencing traits such as tenderness, juiciness, and flavor. However, the molecular mechanisms regulating intramuscular fat deposition in indigenous pig breeds remain incompletely understood. This study aimed to identify genes and regulatory mechanisms associated with intramuscular fat accumulation in Hezuo pigs. Longissimus dorsi muscle samples from Hezuo pigs with extreme high and low intramuscular fat contents were subjected to chromatin accessibility profiling and transcriptome sequencing. Comparative analyses identified 2201 differentially accessible chromatin regions and 588 differentially expressed genes between the two groups. Functional enrichment analyses indicated that these genes were mainly involved in lipid metabolism, focal adhesion, extracellular matrix-receptor interaction, fatty acid metabolism, and adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase signaling. Integration of chromatin accessibility and gene expression datasets identified 92 co-regulated genes associated with intramuscular fat deposition, including MYLK3, PDGFC, PAK1, IGF1R, LAMA4, DIAPH1, SDC4, GADD45G, and RXRG. These findings reveal regulatory networks underlying intramuscular fat accumulation in Hezuo pigs and provide candidate genes and molecular resources for improving meat quality through genetic selection and breeding programs.
Pigment dispersion syndrome and pigmentary glaucoma are important causes of ocular hypertension and glaucomatous optic neuropathy, yet their genetic determinants remain incompletely defined, particularly across diverse ancestries. This study aimed to use a large multi-ancestry cohort from the All of Us Research Program to investigate the genetic basis of pigment dispersion syndrome and pigmentary glaucoma.Case-control study.572 cases and 37,808 controls with array genotyping and 537 cases and 35,493 controls with whole genome sequencing.Using electronic health record phenotyping in the All of Us Research Program, we performed multi-ancestry genome-wide association analyses using both array-based data and whole genome sequencing-based data comparing patients with pigment dispersion syndrome or pigmentary glaucoma to those without either condition. We also performed Firth penalized regression and Fisher analyses, and we performed principal component analyses to assess effect sizes across genetic ancestries. We applied statistical fine-mapping, examined for cross-trait overlap, and assessed expression quantitative trait locus associations for lead variants.P-values and odds ratios of lead loci from genome-wide association analyses; size of credible sets determined from fine-mapping; allele frequency of lead variants in cases, controls, and the general population; expression quantitative trait locus effect size and p-values linking lead variants to gene expression.We identified four loci reaching genome-wide significance across analyses, including signals near EPHA7 (which mediates cell-cell signaling), within TYR (involved in melanin synthesis and replicated from prior studies), within LINC01138, and near OTX2. Statistical fine-mapping refined three of these loci to single-variant 95% credible sets and narrowed the TYR locus to small credible sets, prioritizing possible causal variants. Effect estimates were broadly consistent across genetic ancestry clusters. Lead variants showed regulatory evidence in expression quantitative trait locus, including reduced EPHA7 expression.These findings implicate both melanogenesis and cell-cell adhesion and signaling pathways in pigment dispersion syndrome and pigmentary glaucoma.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The hippocampus, critical for memory integration and synaptic plasticity, undergoes cytoskeletal reorganization during development and maturation, a process regulated by cofilin phosphorylation dynamics. Nischarin is a tumor-suppressive scaffold protein, yet its role in neurodevelopment remains unexplored. This study investigated the spatiotemporal expression of Nischarin and its effect on cofilin during postnatal hippocampal maturation in rats. Using western blot, quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, and shRNA-mediated knockdown in adult rat hippocampal neurons and Neuro-2a cells, we demonstrated that Nischarin expression progressively increased from postnatal day 7 to P28, inversely correlating with declining phosphorylated cofilin levels. Mechanistically, Nischarin reduced phosphorylated cofilin levels by suppressing PAK1/LIMK1 activity. Immunofluorescence revealed that Nischarin knockdown disrupted the subcellular distribution of phosphorylated cofilin by impeding its translocation from the cytoplasm to the nucleus. These findings indicate Nischarin regulates cofilin activity via dual mechanisms: inhibiting phosphorylation through the PAK1/LIMK1 pathway and modulating phosphorylated cofilin nuclear translocation. The study highlights the role of Nischarin in hippocampal neuronal maturation by orchestrating cytoskeletal remodeling and suggests its therapeutic potential in neurodegenerative diseases linked to cofilin dysregulation.
Papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) is the most common type of primary endocrine malignancy. The tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) and genetic alterations play crucial roles in the progression of PTC. With the advance in research, there has been a heightened focus on re-evaluating molecular targeted therapies and identifying novel targets through molecular biology-based approaches. This study aimed to identify robust prognostic biomarkers and to construct a reliable risk model for patients with PTC by integrating multiomics data.RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) data from six Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets and genome-wide association study (GWAS) data were integrated to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and facilitate Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis for causal inference. The CIBERSORT algorithm was employed to evaluate immune cell infiltration. A prognostic risk model was constructed via least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) Cox regression and validated in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and GEO cohorts. Functional experiments, including Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), transwell, and wound-healing assays, were conducted to investigate the role of the key gene ALOX15B in PTC cells.We identified seven PTC-associated genes (ALOX15B, TIAM1, TMC6, GPX3, RAP1GAP, JUN, and PAPSS2) through expression quantitative trait loci and MR analysis. A robust three-gene risk model (ALOX15B, RAP1GAP, and JUN) was established. Patients in the high-risk group exhibited significantly poorer progression-free survival (PFS), which was confirmed to be an independent prognostic factor by multivariate analysis [hazard ratio =1.355, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.052-1.746; P=0.02]. The high-risk group was characterized by an immunosuppressive TIME-including decreased CD8+ T-cell and increased regulatory T-cell abundance-higher tumor mutational burden, and a higher frequency of BRAF mutations. Conversely, the low-risk group showed a higher prevalence of NRAS mutations. In addition, functional assays in vitro revealed that ALOX15B markedly enhanced the proliferative, migratory, and invasive capacities of PTC cells.A novel three-gene signature was developed and was demonstrated to be an independent prognostic indicator for patients with PTC. This model effectively reflects the intrinsic characteristics of the TIME and genomic instability and can inform risk stratification and therapeutic targeting. Due to its oncogenic activity, ALOX15B may represent a viable therapeutic target in PTC.© AME Publishing Company.
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is a lethal gastrointestinal cancer. Metformin, a widely used drug for diabetes, exhibits anti-tumor properties, but the functional mechanism in ESCC metastasis remains unclear. This study aims to investigate the clinical relevance of p21-activated kinase 1 (PAK1) in ESCC metastasis and to determine whether metformin suppresses ESCC migration and invasion by targeting PAK1 to modulate focal adhesion (FA) dynamics.PAK1 expression was examined in ESCC tissues and cells via immunohistochemistry, RT-qPCR, and Western blot, and its correlation with clinicopathological features was analyzed. The impact of metformin on ESCC proliferation, invasion, and migration was investigated by CCK-8, wound healing, and transwell assays. Lentiviral-mediated PAK1 overexpression and knockdown were performed to validate the functional role of PAK1 in metformin action. Focal adhesion dynamics and the Src-FAK-Paxillin signaling pathway were analyzed by immunofluorescence and Western blot.PAK1 was overexpressed in ESCC tissues and positively correlated with lymph node metastasis. Notably, ESCC patients with a history of metformin use exhibited lower PAK1 expression. Functional assays demonstrated that metformin significantly inhibited ESCC cell migration and invasion in a dose-dependent manner. Knockdown of PAK1 phenocopied the inhibitory effects of metformin, whereas PAK1 overexpression abrogated these effects. Mechanistically, PAK1 promoted immature focal adhesion formation by activating the Src-FAK-Paxillin pathway, which was effectively suppressed by metformin.Metformin suppresses the Src-FAK-Paxillin signaling pathway and promotes FA maturation, primarily by downregulating PAK1, thereby inhibiting ESCC migration and invasion. This study provides a novel mechanism for repurposing metformin in ESCC treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chemotherapy resistance in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) remains a major clinical challenge. Integration of multiomic profiling and in vivo functional genomics revealed splicing dysregulation as a determinant of chemoresistance in AML. We uncovered a network involving the splicing regulator SRRM1 and the CLK1/4 and PAK1 kinase families as vulnerabilities in chemoresistant AML cells. Both kinase families are hyperactivated in chemoresistant cells, promoting SRRM1 phosphorylation and altering its scaffolding function. We also identified a relapse-associated PAK1 variant, c.1429G>T p.(Ala477→Ser), that confers chemotherapy resistance. Combined PAK1 and CLK1/4 inhibition recapitulated the splicing changes induced by SRRM1 loss, preferentially targeting chemoresistant AML and enhancing chemotherapy efficacy in cell lines, primary cells, and mouse models. Last, we pinpointed MAP2K5 as a critical downstream effector because missplicing of exons 17 and 18 of MAP2K5 upon SRRM1 depletion sensitized cells to chemotherapy. Our findings highlight a therapeutic strategy to overcome AML relapse by targeting splicing dysregulation.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) remains a clinical challenge due to the lack of druggable targets, an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TIME), and the limited efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs). Herein, we report the first rational design, synthesis, and evaluation of dual PAK1/HDAC10 inhibitors to concurrently suppress oncogenic signaling and influence the TIME. Optimization yielded YDH-704, which displays nanomolar potency against PAK1 and HDAC10, excellent selectivity for HDAC10, and negligible off-target kinase activity. Mechanistically, YDH-704 coinhibits PAK1 oncogenic signaling and HDAC10 epigenetic regulation, downregulates PD-L1, and modulates the TME by reducing MDSC/Treg infiltration while enhancing CD8+ T-cell infiltration and activation. In vivo, YDH-704 exhibits favorable pharmacokinetics, robustly suppresses tumor growth and pulmonary metastasis in TNBC models, and demonstrates a clean safety profile. These findings demonstrate that dual targeting of PAK1 and HDAC10 is a promising therapeutic strategy for TNBC, and YDH-704 represents a valuable preclinical candidate for further development as an immunomodulatory antitumor agent.
Current gene regulatory networks are limited by incomplete functional annotation and the difficulty of inferring causal relationships from expression data. Here we introduce Gene Deregulation Networks (GDNs), a new structure in which a directed link from gene C to gene E indicates that a deregulation of C makes a deregulation of E more probable. GDNs are inferred from expression data using a probabilistic theory of causation, without requiring prior biological knowledge.Using previously defined N- and T-genes with exclusive expression intervals for normal tissue and tumors, respectively, we construct separate GDNs for normal and for tumor tissues. Data are TCGA RNA-Seq bulk profiles from five cancer types. Links are identified via the Loevinger coefficient and pruned with Reichenbach-type and Mokken tests. We then project each sample onto its corresponding Gene Deregulation Network to visualize the deregulation cascades that have occurred. Finally, we define a simple dynamics: spontaneous evolution follows the direction of the GDN edges; interventions (e.g., gene knockdown) acting against spontaneous evolution induce cascades along the reversed network.The GDNs are represented by sparse, directed acyclic graphs. Genes with low deregulation frequency have high out-degrees, suggesting they act as upstream regulators. High-frequency genes have high in-degrees, indicating they are convergence points of cascades. Projecting samples onto the T-GDN reveals that early tumors rely mostly on spontaneous T-gene activations, whereas advanced tumors show wide, branching cascades. The N-GDNs show consistent size and structure across distinct tissues revealing similar protective machinery against tumor formation. In contrast, the T-GDNs quantitatively differ from tissue to tissue indicating different levels of transcriptional reprogramming. Simulated knockdown of EPHA10 and of an 8-gene panel illustrates how the network topology determines whether an intervention can be resisted by the tumor. A reported experiment on POM121 knockdown in two prostate cancer cell lines qualitatively confirms the predicted directionality of cascades.GDNs provide a robust, scalable, and annotation-free framework to understand cancer onset and progression. The separation into N- and T-GDNs, connected by NT-genes, offers a systematic basis for studying carcinogenesis and designing targeted therapies.Copyright © 2026 Castel, Herrero, Gómez, Gil and Gonzalez.
Functional validation of host factors in whole-animal models is a major bottleneck in virology; it hinders the translation of data from in vitro studies into a deeper understanding of the viral life cycle and pathogenesis. To address this challenge, we developed a systematic in vivo screening platform for influenza A virus. This platform comprises a library of 84 CRISPR-Cas9-generated gene-modified mouse lines targeting host factors prioritized from the literature and in vitro small interfering RNA (siRNA) screening studies. Using this resource, we identified 17 host factors whose genetic ablation conferred resistance to influenza A virus infection. Further studies of two of these factors, Arhgef28 and Lasp1, revealed distinct protective mechanisms against influenza A virus. We offer this mouse library to the research community as a powerful platform for studying virus-host interactions in a physiologically relevant context.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy neuropathologic change is a common proteinopathy in the oldest old that is associated with cognitive decline. Although the genetic basis of limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy neuropathologic change remains largely unknown, TMEM106B, GRN and APOE loci are frequently implicated. Here, we examined nine previously reported limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy neuropathologic change risk loci (ARHGEF28, APOE, GRN, KAZN, LHX1, TPCN1, TMEM106B, UNC13C and WWOX) in a population cohort of 262 individuals from the Vantaa 85 + study. We also tested whether Alzheimer's disease polygenic risk score without APOE was associated with limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy neuropathologic change. Using ordinal logistic regression models, GRN rs5848 (odds ratio = 2.45, 95% confidence interval: 1.71-3.52, adjusted P = 5.75 × 10-6), APOE ε4 dose (odds ratio = 1.73, 95% confidence interval: 1.07-2.80, adjusted P = 0.030) and KAZN rs72643142 (odds ratio = 2.38, 95% confidence interval: 1.38-4.11, adjusted P = 0.0048) were associated with higher limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy neuropathologic change stage. Additionally, Alzheimer's disease polygenic risk score without APOE was associated with limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy neuropathologic change after adjusting for age, sex, Alzheimer's disease pathology and APOE ε4 dose (odds ratio = 1.36, 95% confidence interval: 1.06-1.75, adjusted P = 0.027). Our findings contribute to the understanding of limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy neuropathologic change genetics and suggest shared biological processes between limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy neuropathologic change and Alzheimer's disease.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain.
The transition from controlled to escalated drug intake is a core feature of cocaine use disorder (CUD), yet the molecular mechanisms underlying this behavioral escalation remain poorly defined. Our prior genome-wide association study (GWAS) identified ANKS1B as a significant shared genetic risk factor for heroin, methamphetamine, and alcohol dependence, suggesting a broad role in addiction vulnerability. However, the specific function of ANKS1B in cocaine addiction and its associated neural mechanisms were unknown. Here, we found that ANKS1B expression level in the Nucleus Accumbens (NAc) was downregulated after extended cocaine use, and manipulating ANKS1B could selectively influence the escalation of cocaine intake and the subsequent cocaine-seeking behavior in the long-access cocaine self-administration rat model. Molecular experiments reveal that ANKS1B interacts with the histone acetyltransferase CBP to control H3K27 acetylation and extended cocaine intake, via epigenetically repressing the transcription factor FoxO3. Overall, these findings suggest that ANKS1B is a crucial factor influencing the escalation of cocaine use. The ANKS1B-CBP-FoxO3 signaling pathway presents a promising target for potential therapeutic interventions for controlling extended cocaine use.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
We propose an autoencoder-based framework for denoising networks estimated from Spatial Transcriptomics (ST) data for cell signaling analysis. Our method consists of an unsupervised encoder-decoder framework for denoising the network adjacency matrix and a supervised framework for cell signaling estimation. We validate our denoising component using the Frobenius norm metric for graphs simulated using the Barabási-Albert (BA) and Erdős-Rényi (ER) models against reconstructions generated using the singular value decomposition (SVD). We then validate the cell signaling estimates generated using the supervised component on real ST data for the Wnt3-Fzd1 and Ephb1-Efnb3 interactions. We report that our framework achieves better adjacency matrix reconstructions for superlinear BA and dense ER graphs and generates cell signaling estimates that are both regionally specific and biologically plausible. An important contribution of this work is the application of neural networks for network-based cell signaling estimation using ST data and the benchmarking of autoencoder versus SVD denoising for different graph models.
Benzo[a]pyrene (BaP), a widespread environmental pollutant, has been increasingly implicated in the pathogenesis of chronic degenerative diseases. Environmental pollutants have recently been recognized as emerging risk factors for osteoarthritis (OA), but the molecular mechanisms by which BaP contributes to OA progression remain unclear. This study employed an integrated strategy combining network toxicology, transcriptomic analysis, machine learning, molecular docking, dynamics simulations, and in vitro validation to systematically elucidate the role of BaP in OA progression. We identified 27 common targets shared between BaP exposure and OA, functionally enriched in cellular senescence, stress response, and metabolic dysregulation. Machine learning algorithms screened five high-confidence diagnostic biomarkers (FASN, PIEZO2, NGEF, BTG2, TNC), and a predictive nomogram was constructed. Through multi-algorithm integration, FASN was pinpointed as the core target. Molecular docking and dynamics simulations confirmed stable and favorable binding between BaP and FASN. In vitro experiments demonstrated that BaP exposure induced dose- and time-dependent chondrocyte cytotoxicity, increasing oxidative stress and lipid peroxidation by upregulating FASN expression. Furthermore, BaP potently induced chondrocyte senescence, significantly increasing the upregulation of senescence-associated proteins p53 and p21, thereby causing chondrocyte damage. Critically, pharmacological inhibition of FASN by C75 effectively mitigated these detrimental effects, restored extracellular matrix homeostasis, and alleviated BaP-induced chondrocyte senescence. Collectively, our findings reveal FASN as a pivotal molecular core mediating BaP-induced chondrotoxicity and OA progression, providing novel insights into the environmental etiology of OA and identifying a potential target for therapeutic intervention.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41903913 is a review article
Myostatin (MSTN) and Suppressor of Cytokine Signaling 2 (SOCS2) are key negative regulators of muscle growth and development. Cytidine base editors (CBEs) offer a precise method for introducing stop codons to knock out these genes. This study aimed to apply the YE1-AncBE4max CBE system to edit MSTN and SOCS2 in Haimen goats, a local Chinese breed, to enhance growth traits.Efficient single guide RNAs (sgRNAs) targeting MSTN and SOCS2 were screened in goat fetal fibroblasts via electroporation. Edited cells were analyzed by Sanger and TA-clone sequencing. Subsequently, a mixture of selected sgRNA and CBE mRNA was microinjected into 36 zygotes, which were then transferred to 9 recipient goats to generate gene-edited animals. Off-target effects were assessed by sequencing predicted sites.Cellular editing efficiencies for three MSTN sgRNAs were 25%, 37%, and 29%, and for one SOCS2 sgRNA was 31.57%. Microinjection and embryo transfer resulted in the birth of five kids, and one fetus (#S91) was aborted at 3 months of gestation; four with dual-gene (MSTN & SOCS2) edits (#241, #242, #S32, #S91) and two with single SOCS2 edits (#S31, #S11). Notably, two dual-edited goats (#241, #242) harbored biallelic MSTN mutations. No off-target mutations were detected. Phenotypic analysis showed that the edited goats exhibited significantly increased body weight and a "double-muscling" phenotype by 90 days of age compared to wild-type controls. This is the first study of generating any species with double gene knock out (MSTN, and SOCS2) to date to the best of our knowledge.This study successfully established a YE1-AncBE4max-based platform for efficient, precise dual-gene editing in goats. The generation of MSTN/SOCS2-edited Haimen goats with enhanced growth performance demonstrates the potential of base editing technology for rapid genetic improvement in livestock.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
β-Glucosidases (Bgls) catalyse the hydrolysis of β-D-glycosidic bonds and are widely exploited as industrial biocatalysts. While their activity on O- and S-linked glycopyranosides is well established, hydrolysis of N-linked glycopyranosides by Bgls has not previously been demonstrated. Here, we screened a eukaryotic Bgl library for activity on methyl anthranilate-N-β-D-glucopyranoside (MANT-N-glucose), a novel N-glucopyranoside we recently produced biocatalytically. We identify ZmGlu1 as capable of hydrolysing this substrate, albeit with substantially reduced catalytic efficiency relative to native O-glucopyranoside substrates. Structural modelling of the enzyme-substrate complex reveals interactions likely underlying this reduced activity. These findings establish N-glycopyranosides as Bgl substrates and lay the groundwork for engineering Bgls with broader glycosidic bond specificity.© 2026 The Author(s). FEBS Open Bio published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
High-fat diets (HFDs) are widely utilized in aquaculture and result in multiple health and welfare problems in aquatic animals, yet the systemic impacts on host metabolism and gut microbial ecology of HFDs remain insufficiently understood let alone the exact solutions. Here, we investigated the effects of Bacillus thuringiensis Sd_h10 (abbreviated as h10) supplementation on gut microbiota composition, metabolic homeostasis and growth performance in juvenile Larimichthys crocea fed with a high-fat diet. Our results showed that high-fat diet with h10 partially altered intestinal microbial community composition, enhanced the complexity of microbial co-occurrence and was associated with tissue-specific alterations in lipid distribution. Specifically, h10 promoted the deposition of polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) and glucose utilization in intestinal and muscle tissues, while concurrently alleviating hepatic lipid accumulation. Moreover, the expression of genes associated with lipid metabolism, carbohydrate utilization and protein turnover was differentially regulated in the intestine, liver, and muscle, indicating coordinated metabolic adjustments across tissues. Fish in the HFD + h10 exhibited significantly higher relative weight gain and length gain than those in other treatments (P < 0.05). This enhanced growth performance was accompanied by upregulation of growth-promoting genes (gh1, igf1, and myod) and suppression of the growth-inhibitory gene (mstnb) in multiple tissues. Furthermore, partial least squares path modeling (PLS-PM) revealed significant structured associations linking gut microbiota composition, tissue-specific metabolic phenotypes, and growth performance. Collectively, our findings indicated that h10 supplementation may modulate gut microbiota and be associated with multi-tissue metabolic coordination under high-fat dietary conditions. This study provides new insights into the potential role of microbiota-associated metabolic regulation in supporting growth performance in marine aquaculture species.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is a highly malignant tumor with poor prognosis and limited effective treatment options. Emerging studies have suggested that gut microbiota may influence glioma progression through the gut-brain axis, though the precise mechanisms remain largely unclear. In this study, we employed a comprehensive multi-omics approach-encompassing single-cell transcriptomics, spatial transcriptomics, metagenomics, metabolomics, and m6A-seq-to investigate how antibiotic-induced gut microbiota disruption impacts glioma progression in a mouse model. Gene expression analysis revealed significant alterations in antibiotics-treated mice (ABX-treated mice), including reduced expression of Epha6 and upregulated expression of Tead1, key genes associated with glioma progression and immune modulation. Spatial transcriptomics and metabolomic profiling identified reduced methionine levels in gliomas of ABX-treated mice, linking gut-derived metabolite changes to epigenetic regulation via m6A methylation. Single-cell RNA sequencing further demonstrated an increased proportion of AC-like cells, disrupted intercellular communication, and aberrations in the EPHA and NRXN signaling pathways. These findings highlight the interplay between gut microbiota, immune signaling, and epigenetic modifications in shaping the glioma microenvironment. This study advances our understanding of the gut-brain axis in glioma biology and proposes the EPHA pathway as a promising biomarker for the immune-mediated modulation of tumor progression, thereby providing new insights into the role of the gut-brain axis in glioma regulation.Copyright © 2026 Chen, Wang, Peng, Jiang, Liang and Cui.
In human acute myeloid leukemia (AML), a sub-population of leukemia stem cells (LSCs) drive disease initiation, therapeutic resistance, and relapse. However, the lack of reliable markers to distinguish LSCs from bulk leukemia cells has impeded progress in studying LSC pathogenesis and developing meaningful LSC-specific diagnostics and therapeutics. Existing LSC gene signatures, derived from bulk populations, cannot definitively identify LSCs at single-cell resolution. To address this, we analyzed large patient cohorts with bulk gene expression data and single-cell multi-omic assays to identify a prognostic gene signature that is specifically enriched in a clinically adverse AML sub-population. Using this signature, we defined and prospectively isolated CD34+CD90-CLL1-CD69+CD53- immunophenotypic LSCs that are significantly enriched for LSC content based on limiting dilution xenotransplantation assays. Our findings demonstrate the power of single-cell multi-omics to precisely identify a clinically relevant LSC population and establish a clear framework for future translational research in AML.Single cell multi-omics identifies human AML LSCs at high resolution. HOPX and SOCS2 co-expression (hrLSC2) defines a prognostic gene signature in de novo acute myeloid leukemia. hrLSC2 marks an AML subpopulation (iLSCs) with a distinct immunophenotype.iLSCs can be purified using flow cytometry and are significantly enriched for LSCs.
The somatotropic axis encompassing growth hormone (GH), insulin-like growth factor (IGF), myostatin (MSTN), and prolactin (PRL) signalling cascades is the master regulator of somatic growth, metabolism, and development in vertebrates. African catfish (Clarias gariepinus), a commercially pivotal aquaculture species, now possesses a chromosome-level reference genome (CGAR_prim_01v2); however, a systematic, genome-wide characterization spanning all five interconnected growth-related gene families has not previously been undertaken in this species. Here, we identified and characterized 15 growth-related genes spanning gh1, ghra, ghrb, Igf1, Igf2a, Igf2b, igf1ra, Igf1rb, Igf2r, Mstna, Mstnb, prl, prlra, prlrb, and smtlb distributed across 13 chromosomes. Complete one-to-one orthology with zebrafish confirmed strong dosage-balance conservation across >120 million years of teleost divergence. Physicochemical analysis resolved a clear biochemical dichotomy between compact, basic secreted ligands (19.88-45.81 kDa; pI up to 10.02) and large, acidic, heavily glycosylated membrane receptors (56.82-270.80 kDa; pI 4.85-5.97). Phylogenetic analysis confirmed 3R whole-genome duplication origins for all paralog pairs, while synteny analysis revealed a disruption of the ancestral gh1-prl chromosomal block in C. gariepinus, a finding that warrants further comparative and functional investigation. This genomic atlas provides the sequence and structural information including exon-intron boundaries, domain architecture, and chromosomal coordinates needed as a prerequisite for future marker-assisted selection and CRISPR-based myostatin-editing efforts in African catfish aquaculture, though translation into applied breeding outcomes will require subsequent functional and expression studies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Sexual size dimorphism (SSD) refers to the differences in body size between males and females. Epigenetic mechanisms, such as DNA methylation, can shape phenotypes; however, their role in SSD remains unclear. Here, we used Cynoglossus semilaevis, a species with larger females (female-biased SSD), as a model to investigate the role of methylation in the emergence and regulation of SSD. Methylomes and transcriptomes were constructed in four tissues (brain, liver, muscle, and gonad) from three key life stages: juveniles (3 months post-fertilization), male mature stage (1 year post-fertilization; ypf), and female mature stage (3 ypf). In 1 ypf and 3 ypf females showed lower methylation levels, while the number of differentially methylated regions between sexes increased over the lifetime. Genes at the top of the growth hormone/insulin-like growth factor (GH/IGF) axis and hypothalamus-pituitary-gonadal axis (gh1, igf1, gnrh3, errγ, etc.) showed differential methylation between sexes, consistent with sex-related differences in growth. The female-specific W chromosome showed higher methylation than the autosomes or the Z chromosome. Genes of the IGF signaling network that negatively regulate growth and are located on the W chromosome were more highly methylated than their Z homologs. Furthermore, genes with a faster evolutionary rate in C. semilaevis exhibited lower methylation levels than the background genes, suggesting an important evolutionary role for DNA methylation in shaping SSD. Our results provide a comprehensive depiction of methylation regulation of SSD in vertebrates and improve our understanding of how methylation regulation can help organisms to respond to natural selection and allocate resources between the sexes.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press and Science Press on behalf of the Beijing Institute of Genomics, Chinese Academy of Sciences / China National Center for Bioinformation and Genetics Society of China.
Growth traits, as core economic indicators in pig breeding, are closely associated with production costs, rearing duration, and final carcass quality and have thus consistently been a major focus of genetic improvement. This study aimed to identify candidate genes affecting Age to 120 kg live weight (AGE120), Backfat thickness at 120 kg (BF120), and Loin muscle depth at 120 kg (LMD120) in pigs. Ear tissue samples were collected from 3364 healthy adult pigs (including 558 boars and 2805 sows) from three breeds: Large White, Landrace, and Duroc. Genotyping was performed using an 80 K functional site array, and quality-controlled SNP (Single-Nucleotide Polymorphism) loci were subjected to genotype imputation, resulting in 15,447,611 loci obtained. Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) for Age to 120 kg live weight, Back fat thickness at 120 kg, and Loin muscle depth at 120 kg were conducted using a mixed linear model in Genome-wide Complex Trait Analysis (GCTA). Genes located within 500 kb upstream and downstream of significant GWAS loci were extracted using the biomaRt package in R. Furthermore, colocalization analysis was performed using expression Quantitative Trait Locus (eQTL) data of 34 tissues from the PigGTEx database to identify genes that share the same causal variant as the GWAS signals. Through integrated GWAS and eQTL colocalization analysis, in addition to five previously reported genes associated with pig growth traits (TAF11, ZC3HAV1L, ANKS1A, USP20, and TBC1D1), a set of novel, high-confidence candidate genes was identified: ZNF215, UBE2Z, HOXB7, SARDH, ADAMTSL2, ATP6V0A4, RPL10A, PGM2, and RELL1. These findings enrich our understanding of the genetic architecture underlying growth traits in pigs at heavy body weights and provide an important foundation for subsequent functional validation and molecular breeding applications.
α-Glucosidase (α-Glu) inhibitors are important therapeutic agents for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. However, the rapid discovery of such bioactive compounds from natural products remains challenging.In this study, a MOF-818@Pt nanozyme-based colorimetric screening strategy was developed for the efficient discovery of α-Glu inhibitors from natural sources. The MOF-818@Pt composite, synthesized via an in-situ reduction-deposition method, exhibited excellent peroxidase-like activity and was thoroughly characterized. Using α-arbutin as the substrate, the proposed nanozyme-based system enabled sensitive detection of α-Glu activity, exhibiting a good linear relationship within the concentration range of 0.05-120 U/L (R2 = 0.991), along with strong anti-interference ability, satisfactory reproducibility, and long-term stability. This method was successfully applied to the bioactivity-guided fractionation of Myrciaria cauliflora, leading to the enrichment of ten subfractions (GH1-GH10) with significant α-Glu inhibitory activity. Feature-based molecular networking analysis revealed that these subfractions are predominantly composed of phloroglucinols, terpenoids, polyketides, and meroterpenoids. Molecular docking studies demonstrated that representative compounds from each class could bind within the active site of α-Glu, forming hydrogen bonds with key residues including Arg213, Asp215, Glu277, Gln279, and Asp352.This work establishes a rapid, simple, and high-throughput strategy for screening α-Glu inhibitors from complex natural product matrices, providing a promising technological platform for natural product-based drug discovery.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Children with idiopathic short stature (ISS) have reduced height potential without identifiable endocrine or systemic causes. Selecting appropriate candidates for recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) therapy remains challenging. The aim of this study was to describe near-final height (NFH) outcomes and to identify clinical predictors of growth response in children with ISS who were selected for rhGH therapy based on a positive IGF-1 generation test (IGFGT).In this multicenter retrospective study (2009-2018) across four centers in Türkiye, patients diagnosed with ISS, baseline IGF-1 < 0 SDS, and ≥ 20% IGF-1 increment after IGFGT were included. GH1 gene sequencing was performed to exclude biologically inactive GH, a condition marked by normal or elevated GH secretion but impaired biological activity. NFH was defined as bone age ≥ 14 years in girls and ≥ 16 years in boys. Height SDS gain from baseline to NFH was evaluated.Sixty-three patients (28 females, 19 pubertal) were enrolled, of whom 55 had NFH data and were included in the final analysis. Mean age at treatment initiation was 10.8 ± 3.0 years. No GH1 mutations were identified. Among 55 patients with NFH data, mean height SDS increased from - 2.90 ± 0.77 at baseline to -1.92 ± 0.90 at NFH (p < 0.001), with a mean height SDS gain of 0.93 ± 0.68. The median difference between NFH SDS and baseline predicted adult height (PAH) SDS was - 0.06 (- 0.32-0.07). Predictors of NFH gain included female gender, target height (TH) SDS, baseline height-TH difference, baseline height-PAH difference, and first-year growth velocity SDS.rhGH therapy was associated with improvements in height SDS and NFH in this selected cohort of children with ISS. However, the absence of an untreated control group and the minimal difference between NFH and baseline PAH indicate that these findings should be interpreted with caution. Although no GH1 mutations were identified, the relatively high rate of parental consanguinity suggests that other genetic factors within the GH-IGF-1 axis or epiphyseal growth plate pathways may underlie the etiology of short stature.Not applicable.© 2026. The Author(s).
Sperm cryodamage is a key factor affecting its post-thaw quality. This study aims to systematically elucidate the molecular response mechanisms of bovine sperm cryodamage by integrating transcriptomic and proteomic analyses. By utilizing the swim-up technique to isolate sperm subpopulations with mild and severe cryodamage, thereby minimizing interference from individual genetic variation. Results demonstrated that mildly damaged sperm exhibited superior motility, structural integrity, and antioxidant capacity, along with less reactive oxygen species accumulation and more active Wnt, mTOR, and Hippo signaling pathways at the transcriptional level. Severely damaged sperm exhibited activation of pathways related to oxidative phosphorylation, thermogenesis, peroxisome, glutathione metabolism, phagocytosis, and DNA repair at the protein level, with ATP5MG, GPX1, XRCC1, and AP1M2 serving as core regulatory factors in these pathways. Additionally, integrated analysis identified eight potential biomarker proteins, including apoptosis-related protein ARL6IP5, anti-apoptotic protein GRINA, adhesion factors CDHR1/LGALS1, DNA repair proteins CUL4B/POLR2E, and core factors RPL14/A1BG in the protein-protein interaction network. Notably, the protein levels of ARL6IP5, CDHR1, and LGALS1 were inconsistent with their gene expression levels. These candidate molecules showed significant correlations with post-thaw sperm quality and were quantitatively validated. The results indicate that mitochondrial energy metabolism, antioxidant and anti-apoptotic defense systems, as well as self-repair and clearance responses, including nucleic acid repair and phagocytosis, represent the molecular response characteristics of sperm cryodamage. These findings complement the molecular mechanisms and regulatory networks of sperm cryodamage, and provide potential targets for evaluating the cryopreservation potential of bull semen and optimizing cryoprotectants.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42565910
Neuroinflammation and microglia M1/M2 polarization imbalance are among the core pathological mechanisms of epilepsy (EP), with the JAK1/STAT1 pathway being vital in neuroinflammation. β-hydroxybutyrate (BHB), a ketone body metabolite, has anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective potential, but whether it can ameliorate EP-related neurological damage by modulating this pathway remains unclear. To investigate whether BHB regulates microglia polarization and phagocytosis through the JAK1/STAT1 pathway, attenuates neuroinflammation and neuronal injury, and thus exerts anti-EP effects. A rat primary neuronal EP model and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced M1-type microglia model were constructed, and microglia polarization, migration, phagocytosis, and neuronal damage were detected by scratch assay, flow cytometry, Hoechst 33,342/PI staining, Cell Counting Kit-8 assay, and ELISA kits. A rat model of Pentetrazol (PTZ)-induced EP was constructed to detect the effects of BHB on the symptoms of EP in rats by behavioral assessment, and to detect brain tissue damage by pathological staining. Western blot was conducted to detect microglia polarization markers, neuronal apoptosis, synapse-related proteins, and JAK1/STAT1 pathway-related proteins expression. Pathway specificity was verified using JAK1 overexpression plasmid (OE-JAK1) and STAT1 inhibitor (Fludarabine). BHB concentration-dependently increased EP neuron viability and suppressed M1 polarization induced by LPS, and promoted M2 polarization. BHB also enhanced the migration and phagocytosis of microglia, and reduced pro-inflammatory factor release, which in turn attenuated their pro-inflammatory damage to neurons and protected synaptic integrity, and this effect was linked to its suppression of JAK1/STAT1 pathway activation. Additionally, BHB extended seizure latency, decreased seizure duration, and reduced seizure severity in EP rats, and effectively attenuated brain histopathological damage and promoted neuronal regeneration and axonal repair. Furthermore, BHB was also effective in promoting microglia M2 polarization and enhancing their phagocytosis in vivo. Overexpression of JAK1 attenuated the neuroprotective effects of BHB, and Fludarabine attenuated the impacts of overexpression of JAK1. By inhibiting the JAK1/STAT1 pathway, BHB promotes microglia M2 polarization and enhances their phagocytosis, attenuates neuroinflammation and neuronal injury, and ultimately exerts anti-EP effects.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Early-stage mycosis fungoides (MF) often presents diagnostic challenges because of its clinical overlap with atopic dermatitis (AD). In clinical practice, we encountered a subset of patients with severe AD who fulfilled the MF diagnostic criteria yet remained clinically indistinguishable from AD and presented refractoriness to advanced therapies. We termed this ambiguous entity "mycosis fungoides-like AD" (mfAD) and sought to determine whether it represents malignant transformation or a distinct inflammatory endotype of AD.Skin biopsies were obtained from 7 patients with AD and 11 patients with mfAD. We performed paired single-cell RNA sequencing and single-cell T-cell receptor sequencing analyses. Publicly available MF and AD datasets were integrated for comparative analysis. Spatial transcriptomic profiling was used to contextualize single-cell findings within the tissue architecture.Comparative transcriptomic analysis revealed that T cells in mfAD were aligned with those in AD and lacked genomic instability. High-resolution profiling showed that mfAD was characterized by oligoclonal Th22 expansion rather than a single dominant malignant clone. Notably, all patients with mfAD achieved rapid clinical remission with selective JAK1 inhibition, indicating the therapeutic response characteristics of inflammatory dermatoses.Our findings demonstrate that mfAD is not a true malignancy, but rather a Th22-driven inflammatory endotype of AD. These results redefine mfAD as an inflammatory subtype within the AD spectrum, providing a mechanistic explanation for both the "pseudo-monoclonality" that leads to MF misdiagnosis and the failure of dupilumab. This study establishes a rationale for the use of JAK inhibitors in precision medicine for this patient population.© 2026 European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42557506 is a review article
To describe a case of reversible azoospermia temporally associated with abrocitinib treatment in a man with severe atopic dermatitis (AD) and discuss its potential implications for male reproductive safety.Case report.A 38-year-old normal-weight man with highly refractory AD, a history of neonatal orchidopexy, and primary infertility.Clinical, hormonal, and semen evaluation before and after discontinuation of abrocitinib therapy (200mg/day).Semen parameters and reproductive hormone profile.Two consecutive semen analyses performed during abrocitinib treatment demonstrated azoospermia. Baseline endocrine evaluation showed elevated follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH; 12.3 mIU/mL), suggestive of seminiferous tubule dysfunction. Abrocitinib was discontinued, and reassessment after 3 months revealed complete recovery of spermatogenesis, with a sperm concentration of 50 million/mL. Although isolated teratozoospermia persisted, FSH levels normalized (8.6 mIU/mL) and inhibin B increased markedly (from 58 to 135 pg/mL), consistent with improved Sertoli cell function. The temporal association between drug withdrawal and recovery supports a potential reversible effect on spermatogenesis.This is, to our knowledge, the first report describing reversible azoospermia temporally associated with abrocitinib therapy. Although causality cannot be established from a single observation, this case raises a potential safety signal regarding the effects of selective JAK1 inhibition on male reproductive function. Further preclinical studies, pharmacovigilance analyses, and prospective clinical investigations are warranted to determine whether prolonged or high-dose abrocitinib exposure may adversely affect spermatogenesis in susceptible individuals.© 2026. The Author(s).
Patients with chronic inflammatory disorders, including inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), carry an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. The 2022 ORAL Surveillance study reported that the pan-selective Janus kinase inhibitor (JAKi) tofacitinib was associated with increased risk of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) among patients with rheumatoid arthritis compared to anti-tumor necrosis factor (anti-TNF) therapy. This prompted guideline changes regarding the use of all JAKis, including upadacitinib, a JAK1-selective drug approved for use in chronic inflammatory conditions, including IBD. However, the mechanism underlying JAKi-related MACE outcomes and the significance of JAK selectivity relative to TNF inhibition remain unclear. Microvascular dysfunction (MVD) is a predictor of MACE. Flow-mediated dilation (FMD) is a measure of MVD. Using an established ex vivo model of resistance arterioles isolated from adipose tissue, we performed the first mechanistic comparison of anti-tumor necrosis factor (anti-TNF; infliximab), pan-JAK inhibitor (tofacitinib), and JAK1-selective (upadacitinib) therapies on human microvascular endothelial function. Arterioles were obtained from low-cardiovascular-risk subjects of both sexes. Isolated microvessels were incubated with drugs of interest. Flow-mediated dilation (FMD), an assessment of MVD, was measured before and after nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibition or hydrogen peroxide (H₂O₂) scavenging. No therapy statistically altered FMD magnitude, yet underlying mechanisms differed. Control and infliximab-treated vessels maintained physiologic NO-mediated dilation. Tofacitinib induced a shift toward pathologic H₂O₂-mediated dilation. Upadacitinib impaired NO-dependent dilation without evidence of compensatory H₂O₂ signaling. In summary, anti-TNF therapy and selective versus non-selective JAKi differentially modulate endothelial mechanisms of vasodilation, suggesting unique microvascular phenotypes with potential implications for cardiovascular risk.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42549219 is a review article
Allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) and atopic dermatitis (AD) are driven by distinct T cell programs, and safe long-term topical therapies remain limited. Dermal fibroblasts (dFBs) have emerged as active immunomodulators, but whether they can be therapeutically targeted remains unexplored.Here we developed MDI1228, a novel topical pan‑JAK inhibitor with nanomolar potency against JAK1/2/3/TYK2 (IC₅₀ 0.11-0.85 nM) and high selectivity. MDI1228 was evaluated in DNFB‑induced ACD and MC903‑induced AD mouse models, as well as in primary mouse and human cell‑based assays.Topical MDI1228 ameliorated both ACD and AD in mice, reducing T cell infiltration and cytokine production. Mechanistically, MDI1228 not only directly inhibited T cell activation and cytokine production but also disrupted fibroblast‑T cell crosstalk by reducing dFB‑derived chemokine expression. Single‑cell transcriptomics identified dFBs as the primary source of CXCL9/10 in ACD and CCL2 in AD. Conditioned medium and neutralization experiments demonstrated that CXCL9/10‑CXCR3 and CCL2‑CCR2 signaling axes contribute to T cell polarization in a context‑dependent manner. Compared with glucocorticoids, prolonged topical application of MDI1228 showed minimal systemic toxicity and preserved tissue homeostasis.These findings identify dFBs as a central therapeutic node and demonstrate that MDI1228, by directly targeting T cells and disrupting dFB‑derived chemokine axes via JAK inhibition, offers a potent and safe topical treatment for both ACD and AD.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Yin, Yang, Heng, Zhang, Song, Feng, Yang, Liu and Zhang.
Human norovirus (HuNoV) is a major cause of acute viral gastroenteritis. Although it can be replicated in vitro using human intestinal enteroids (HIEs), generating high-titer viral laboratory stocks remains challenging due to low infection and passage efficiencies. Interferon response and chemokine signaling may be key host pathways that restrict efficient HuNoV replication. Here, we evaluated the effect of their inhibitors, ruxolitinib-a Janus kinase (JAK) 1/JAK2 inhibitor-and TAK-779-a C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 3 (CXCR3)/C-C motif chemokine receptor (CCR) 5/CCR2 antagonist-on HuNoV replication in wild-type jejunal HIEs. TAK-779 increased GII.17 HuNoV replication by 2.3- and 6.0-fold at 48 and 96 h postinfection (hpi), respectively, compared with the DMSO-treated control. In contrast, ruxolitinib alone did not affect viral replication. Notably, simultaneous treatment with these compounds further enhanced GII.17 replication by 6.0- and 10.7-fold at 48 and 96 hpi, respectively, which enabled serial passaging. These findings imply that the simultaneous suppression of these pathways potentially benefits GII.17 HuNoV replication.© 2026 The Author(s). Genes to Cells published by Molecular Biology Society of Japan and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
The restoration of liver mass after partial hepatectomy (PH) and split liver transplantation (SLT) relies on efficient liver regeneration, a process highly susceptible to metabolic dysregulation. Although remodeling of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle is commonly observed during liver injury and regeneration, the specific role of succinic acid remains unclear. Here, we integrated radiomics, transcriptomics, metabolomics, and functional assays to systematically evaluate the association between succinic acid and liver regeneration. Multi-omics analysis of 20 SLT patients demonstrated that elevated succinic acid levels were strongly associated with impaired regenerative outcomes, and weighted gene co-expression network analysis identified the TCA cycle as a key regeneration-associated metabolic module. In a 70% PH mouse model, succinic acid administration was associated with reduced survival and decreased hepatocyte proliferation, consistent with impaired liver regeneration. Mechanistically, succinic acid exhibited distinct effects in different cell types: in macrophages, it enhanced inflammatory activation and increased interleukin-6 (IL-6) secretion, whereas in hepatocytes it reduced IL-6-induced STAT3 phosphorylation and downstream regenerative signaling. Furthermore, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and surface plasmon resonance assays supported an interaction between succinic acid and the STAT3 SH2 domain, providing structural evidence consistent with modulation of STAT3 signaling. Collectively, these findings suggest that succinic acid may function as an immunometabolic regulator that contributes to impaired liver regeneration by altering macrophage-derived IL-6 signaling and hepatocyte STAT3 activation. These findings also support further investigation of the succinic acid-STAT3 axis as a potential therapeutic target for promoting liver regeneration following hepatic injury or resection.© 2026. The Author(s).
Liver fibrosis is a major global health issue with limited treatment options. Activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) induces collagen deposition, which is a core step in the progression of liver fibrosis. MicroRNA221-3p (miR221-3p) is a key profibrotic regulator of the activation of hepatic stellate cells. Sensitive and selective imaging and regulation of miR221-3p within complex cellular environments are essential for both diagnosis and therapy, yet remains challenging.To address this, we engineered a miR-on Self-Assembly Cascade (SAC) amplification strategy for miR221-3p visualization and regulation. The system consists of a DNA initiator strand (Hc) and four hairpin strands (H1-H4). MiR221-3p binds to and opens Hc, triggering a self-sustained circular hairpin reporter reaction. The resulting replicas serve as feedback to drive subsequent cycles, achieving exponential signal amplification. This design enables highly sensitive and selective fluorescence imaging of miR221-3p in living cells. Additionally, as a functional demonstration, the SAC system also induced inactivation of HSCs. Mechanistic studies revealed that the SAC strategy disrupts the miR221-3p/Suppressor Of Cytokine Signaling 1 (SOCS1) axis, thereby suppressing Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription 3 (STAT3) phosphorylation, thus alleviating liver fibrosis. In vivo studies further demonstrate the sustained administration of SAC significantly reduced extracellular matrix accumulation and ameliorated liver fibrosis in a CCl4-induced mouse model.Owing to its self-sustained signal amplification, the SAC strategy achieves both sensitive miR221-3p imaging and effective fibrosis suppression. This work provides a robust analytical platform for miRNA-based diagnostics and holds promise for precision medicine in fibrotic and miRNA-related disorders.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
White adipose tissue (WAT) communicates with distal metabolic organs and regulates their functions by secreting adipokines. Subcutaneous WAT (sWAT) is thought to be metabolically protective but prone to dysfunction with aging and obesity. Chronic activation of p53 is commonly observed in dysfunctional WAT at different anatomical locations in metabolic diseases. However, the impact of MDM2 deletion and its associated p53 activation in sWAT on adipokine profile and systemic metabolism is unknown.To investigate the effects of selective MDM2 deletion and associated p53 activation in sWAT, we administered two independent adipotropic adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors expressing Cre recombinase into the sWAT of Mdm2flox/flox mice to locally delete MDM2, a well-established negative regulator that targets p53 for degradation. Deletion of MDM2 resulted in sustained p53 activation, leading to senescence, apoptosis, and fibrosis in sWAT, but not in other fat depots or metabolic organs. sWAT dysfunction resulting from MDM2 deletion and its associated p53 activation had no obvious impact on systemic glucose or lipid metabolism, but progressively triggered hepatic inflammation, damage, and fibrosis. Proteomic analysis revealed that MDM2 deletion shifted the sWAT adipokine profile toward a more pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic state. Among the MDM2 deletion-induced sWAT-derived factors, galectin-3 acted as a major contributor to hepatic stellate cell activation and fibrogenesis via the STAT3 pathway. At the molecular level, p53 bound to the Lgals3 promoter and upregulated its mRNA expression, thereby increasing galectin-3 secretion primarily in mature adipocytes.Our findings reveal that sWAT dysfunction caused by MDM2 deletion and its associated p53 activation is sufficient to promote hepatic damage and fibrosis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Secondary lymphedema is a debilitating complication following oncologic surgery, characterized by progressive tissue fibrosis and chronic inflammation. Although transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) has been established as a central mediator of fibrotic remodeling, the broader interplay between pro-inflammatory cytokines and downstream fibrotic signaling cascades in post-surgical lymphedematous tissue remains poorly understood.Skin and subcutaneous tissue biopsies were prospectively collected from 126 patients with unilateral breast cancer-related lymphedema and 58 matched controls across three tertiary centers between January 2024 and December 2025. Tissue specimens were analyzed using immunohistochemistry, quantitative real-time PCR, multiplex cytokine profiling, and Western blotting. Correlations between cytokine expression, fibrotic markers, and clinical severity were evaluated.Lymphedematous tissues exhibited significantly elevated expression of TGF-β1, interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-13 (IL-13), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) compared with controls (all P < 0.01). Concurrent activation of Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling pathways was observed, with both correlating positively with disease severity. Multivariate regression identified TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 as independent predictors of fibrotic burden, whereas TNF-α lost significance after adjustment for confounders. Lymphatic vessel density was inversely associated with cytokine levels and fibrotic severity.Secondary upper extremity lymphedema following breast cancer surgery is driven by a coordinated inflammatory and fibrotic axis involving TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 through convergent Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling. These findings support the development of multi-pathway therapeutic strategies beyond single-agent anti-fibrotic approaches for post-surgical lymphedema.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Psoriasis is a chronic immune-mediated inflammatory disease. Inosine Monophosphate Dehydrogenase 2 (IMPDH2), the rate-limiting enzyme in de novo guanine nucleotide biosynthesis, is upregulated during cytokine-mediated inflammatory responses, yet its specific role in keratinocyte biology and psoriatic pathogenesis remains unexplored. Here, we identify IMPDH2 as a critical metabolic regulator of psoriatic inflammation. Integrated analysis of bulk and single-cell RNA sequencing datasets revealed consistent upregulation of IMPDH2 in psoriatic keratinocytes, which was further validated by immunofluorescence staining of patient skin biopsies. In an imiquimod (IMQ)-induced murine psoriasis model, pharmacological inhibition of IMPDH2 with Casticin attenuated disease progression and alleviated epidermal inflammation. Mechanistically, IMPDH2 promotes keratinocyte inflammation through GTP-dependent activation of STAT3 signaling: IMPDH2 knockdown or inhibition reduced STAT3 phosphorylation and suppressed inflammatory responses, effects that were reversed by exogenous GTP supplementation, whereas IMPDH2 overexpression enhanced STAT3 phosphorylation and inflammation. Supporting a direct causal link between IMPDH2 and STAT3, the STAT3 activator colivelin reversed the effect of IMPDH2 inhibition, while the STAT3 inhibitor Stattic abrogated the effect of IMPDH2 overexpression. Collectively, this study establishes a previously unrecognized IMPDH2-GTP-STAT3 axis driving keratinocyte inflammation and nominates Casticin as a promising therapeutic candidate for psoriasis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Nuclear STAT6 immunohistochemistry is the diagnostic surrogate for the NAB2::STAT6 fusion of solitary fibrous tumour (SFT); its sensitivity is established, but specificity varies for unexamined reasons. This review quantified pooled accuracy and tested whether antibody clone and nuclear threshold govern specificity. PubMed, Scopus and Web of Science were searched to 29 June 2026 for studies reporting nuclear STAT6 immunohistochemistry against a reference standard (NAB2::STAT6 confirmation and/or expert consensus) in SFT and comparators, with extractable two-by-two data. Two reviewers screened, extracted data and applied QUADAS-2. A bivariate generalised linear mixed model gave summary sensitivity and specificity, and exploratory subgroup analysis and meta-regression tested antibody clone, anatomical site and reference-standard type. Twenty-three studies (1216 SFT and 4715 comparators) were included. Summary sensitivity was 98.7% (95% confidence interval 96.7-99.5) and specificity 99.1% (97.8-99.6); the diagnostic odds ratio was approximately 8656. The monoclonal YE361 subgroup (8 studies) reached specificity 99.9% (99.3-100), with one false positive among 861 comparators, versus 98.1% (96.0-99.1) for polyclonal and other antibodies. False positives concentrated in dedifferentiated liposarcoma and prostatic stromal tumours. Estimates were stable after removing studies at higher risk of bias (98.9%/99.1%) and on leave-one-out analysis; the Deeks test was non-significant (p = 0.08). Nuclear STAT6 immunohistochemistry is therefore highly sensitive and specific for SFT, and the residual specificity loss is structured and largely avoidable: the monoclonal YE361 read at a strict nuclear threshold is preferred, with MDM2 and CDK4 applied to exclude dedifferentiated liposarcoma when nuclear STAT6 is unexpectedly positive.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is associated with loss of muscle quality and strength, but accessible quantitative tools for detecting these changes remain limited. We evaluated whether shear wave viscoelastic imaging (SWVI), acoustic attenuation imaging (AAI), and isokinetic strength testing could characterize rectus femoris muscle involvement in RA, and used public synovial transcriptomic data to provide hypothesis-generating biological context.Twenty-nine patients with RA (early RA, n = 7; active RA, n = 11; treated low/moderate-activity RA, n = 11) and 27 healthy controls underwent rectus femoris ultrasound and knee isokinetic strength testing. The main ultrasound variables were rectus femoris thickness and cross-sectional area, mean Young's modulus (Emean), viscosity (Vimean), speed of sound (SoS), and AAI. Group differences, Spearman correlations, receiver-operating-characteristic (ROC) curves, and exploratory logistic models were analyzed. Because the RA cohort was small and diabetes was more common in RA than in controls, ROC, nomogram, and multivariable results were interpreted as exploratory rather than confirmatory. Public GSE55235 synovial transcriptome data were reanalyzed to identify inflammatory and extracellular-matrix pathways that may plausibly link synovitis with systemic muscle impairment.Rectus femoris thickness and cross-sectional area showed limited between-group separation, whereas Emean, Vimean, SoS, AAI, and isokinetic strength differed across groups (all p < 0.001). AAI increased from controls to early, active, and treated low/moderate-activity RA groups and correlated with disease duration in the full cohort (Spearman rho = 0.864); this association remained strong in RA-only adjusted sensitivity analyses. SoS decreased across the same gradient (rho = - 0.875 with duration in the full cohort), whereas Vimean was highest in active RA and correlated with DAS28 in the full cohort (rho = 0.643). Extensor peak torque was lower in RA and correlated inversely with DAS28 in the full cohort (rho = - 0.844); the corresponding RA-only association was more moderate but remained significant (rho = - 0.642). In exploratory ROC analyses, AAI, SoS, and extensor peak torque showed high apparent discrimination between RA and controls; however, the small overall and subgroup samples, baseline differences in diabetes and height, and absence of external validation make these estimates potentially unstable and preclude conclusions about clinical applicability. Synovial transcriptomic analysis showed enrichment of TNF, NF-κB, JAK-STAT, cytokine-receptor, and extracellular-matrix remodeling pathways in RA synovium, supporting a plausible inflammatory background rather than direct evidence of muscle pathology.In this exploratory clinical-transcriptomic study, SWVI/AAI and isokinetic strength testing detected rectus femoris muscle-quality and functional differences associated with RA. AAI and SoS may be candidate ultrasound parameters for RA-associated muscle involvement, but their disease specificity, independence from diabetes, and tissue-level interpretation require confirmation in larger, externally validated studies with reference-standard muscle-composition assessment and reliability testing.• This study integrates meta-analysis, Mendelian randomization, and single-cell RNA sequencing to comprehensively evaluate treatment efficacy, genetic influences, and immune alterations in late-onset rheumatoid arthritis (LORA). • LORA patients exhibit distinct treatment responses compared with younger-onset RA, including lower clinical remission rates with biologics/tsDMARDs and higher residual disease activity (DAS28). • Genetic variants in the IL-6R and TYK2 pathways are identified as key modifiers of drug response and disease susceptibility in LORA. • The findings underscore the need for age- and genetics-informed personalized treatment strategies in elderly patients with rheumatoid arthritis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to International League of Associations for Rheumatology (ILAR).
STAT5A is unique in its diverse expression in different cells. Here, we show that STAT5A deficiency results in reduced expression of the actin-bundling protein α-actinin-1, which alters cytoskeletal reorganization, including loss of actin bundles, reduction of cellular motility, and clustering of mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum in the perinuclear region. These changes in cellular architecture led to production of ROS by the mitochondria, which may be explained by reduced peroxisome abundance. This, in turn, results in dsDNA breaks and formation of cytoplasmic micronuclei, and activating the cGAS-STING pathway, and mediating type I IFN production and the expression of IFN-stimulated genes. The ectopic expression of α-actinin-1 or STAT5A in STAT5A knockout cells is sufficient to restore actin bundle formation and nullifies all downstream effects. Conversely, inhibiting downstream steps suppresses only subsequent events in the pathway. STAT5A knockout results in a similar phenotype as seen with cytochalasin B, an inhibitor of actin polymerization. Overall, we show that STAT5A-α-actinin-1 links cytoskeleton integrity to mitochondrial immune regulation.© 2026 Sun et al.
STAT5B (signal transducer and activator of transcription 5B) deficiency is a rare autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by severe postnatal growth retardation, atopic dermatitis, and hormonal and immunological abnormalities. We present the case of a 7-month-old male patient with no significant perinatal history who was referred to our clinic for a skin condition that had been present for 5 months, associated with severe growth retardation (low weight for height). After ruling out the most common causes of early-onset atopic dermatitis (such as food allergies, primary immunodeficiencies, and inborn errors of metabolism), genetic testing was performed, leading to a diagnosis of STAT5B deficiency. Our objective is to present a patient with a very rare disease that has a highly characteristic presentation, thereby aiding in early diagnosis.Sociedad Argentina de Pediatría.
The macromolecular monoclonal antibodies targeting CTLA-4/PD-1/PD-L1 have revolutionized cancer immunotherapy. However, their clinical efficacy is limited by poor tissue penetration, strong immunogenicity and frequent cytokine release syndrome (CRS) risk. In contrast, natural small molecules can effectively overcome these challenges due to their strong penetration, minimal immunogenicity and low CRS risk.Developing natural small molecule-mediated immunotherapeutic drugs represents a promising strategy for improving current cancer immunotherapy.A non-traditional T-cell immunomodulatory anti-tumor model was utilized to explore these potential molecules.LDH release assays and ELISA were used to assess T-cell immune killing activity against tumor cells and cytokine production. The mouse colon cancer lung metastasis model was used to evaluate anti-tumor efficacy in vivo through emodinanthrone monotherapy and combined with anti-PD-1 treatment. Proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses, combined with blocking and rescue experiments, were employed to investigate the underlying mechanism.The natural product emodinanthrone (EA), a precursor of emodin, was first identified as a potential T-cell immunomodulator. Mechanistic studies revealed that EA exerts immunomodulatory effects on T cells to eliminate multiple tumor cells, mainly by enhancing the JAK3-STAT1/3 signaling axis, leading to increased expression of granzyme B, perforin, and IFN-γ. In vivo, EA treatment significantly reduced the number of lung metastatic nodules by approximately 72.4% and extended overall survival by approximately 42.8%. Furthermore, combination treatment with anti-PD-1 antibody markedly decreased the metastasis rate from 59% to 12.8% and improved the survival rate from 30% to 70%.This study first reveals that emodinanthrone possesses T-cell immunomodulatory anti-tumor activity. In vivo findings further support its development as a promising candidate to improve anti-PD-1 efficacy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Alopecia universalis (AU) is a severe autoimmune disorder characterized by complete loss of scalp and body hair. The introduction of Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors has expanded therapeutic options for patients with severe disease; however, treatment responses remain variable, particularly among individuals with extensive and longstanding hair loss. Reporting cases with atypical or limited responses to therapy remains important for understanding the spectrum of clinical outcomes observed in practice. We describe a 30-year-old man with a 23-year history of AU who demonstrated minimal response to multiple prior therapies, including tofacitinib (pan-JAK inhibitor) and ritlecitinib (JAK3/TEC inhibitor), without meaningful scalp, eyebrow, or eyelash regrowth. Following six months of treatment with deuruxolitinib, the patient experienced his first clinically significant regrowth, limited to the eyebrows and eyelashes, while scalp involvement remained largely unchanged. This case highlights the potential for site-specific hair regrowth in longstanding, treatment-refractory AU and suggests that eyebrow and eyelash regrowth may occur even in the absence of substantial scalp hair recovery.Copyright © 2026, Kogan et al.
Background: Janus kinase inhibitors (JAK inhibitors) have expanded therapeutic options for rheumatoid arthritis (RA), although factors associated with treatment response in routine clinical practice remain incompletely defined. Objectives: This study aimed to evaluate clinical, treatment-related and pharmacogenetic factors associated with response to different JAK inhibitors in patients with RA. Methods: An ambispective observational real-world cohort study was conducted in patients with RA treated with tofacitinib, baricitinib, filgotinib, or upadacitinib. Disease activity was assessed at 3 and 6 months using the Disease Activity Score in 28 joints based on C-reactive protein (DAS28-CRP). Clinical response was evaluated according to European Alliance of Associations for Rheumatology (EULAR) response criteria, low disease activity (LDA), and remission thresholds. Clinical, laboratory, and treatment-related variables were collected, and selected single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in JAK1, JAK2, and JAK3 genes were genotyped. Bivariate and multivariable analyses were performed to identify variables associated with treatment outcomes. Results: Lower baseline inflammatory burden and lower disease activity were consistently associated with higher probabilities of EULAR response, LDA, and remission across JAK inhibitors. Treatment-related factors were also associated with improved outcomes. Pharmacogenetic associations were heterogeneous and drug-specific, with the most recurrent exploratory signals involving JAK2 variants. However, these genetic findings showed variability across outcomes and time points. Conclusions: In this real-world RA cohort, clinical and treatment-related factors were the most consistent variables associated with response to JAK inhibitors. Pharmacogenetic variation within the JAK pathway, particularly involving JAK2, may contribute to drug-specific variability in response, but these findings should be considered exploratory because of the limited sample size, multiple comparisons, and sparse genotype subgroups. Larger independent studies are required before JAK genotyping can be incorporated into individualized treatment strategies.
Bisphenol A (BPA) is a common industrial chemical primarily used in the manufacture of plastics, and it has been found in more than 90% of people worldwide. As an endocrine disruptor, BPA can impair reproduction, development, immunity, metabolism, and cognition; it also disturbs immune balance and thus fosters chronic inflammation. A number of population-based studies have indicated a link between environmental BPA exposure and atopic dermatitis (AD). Nevertheless, the detailed molecular pathways connecting BPA to AD remain poorly understood. AD is the leading chronic recurrent inflammatory skin disorder, characterized by severe itching and repeated eczema-like lesions. Its prevalence is roughly 13% among children and 5% among adults, and its global incidence continues to rise, imposing heavy health and economic burdens on societies. To clarify whether and how BPA may promote or worsen AD, we carried out a comprehensive computational study that integrated network toxicology, transcriptomic data, machine learning, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulations. From the CTD, ChEMBL, and SwissTargetPrediction databases, we collected 5701 potential BPA targets; from GeneCards and OMIM, we obtained 3270 genes linked to AD. The overlap between these two gene sets gave a group of common candidate genes. Enrichment analyses using GO and KEGG showed that these common genes were significantly overrepresented in the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, Th17 cell differentiation, and the JAK-STAT signaling pathway-all central to immune and inflammatory regulation. We then built a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network by submitting the common genes to the STRING database and employed Cytoscape to extract hub genes from that network. By integrating human AD transcriptomic profiles with the hub genes and applying two machine learning techniques (LASSO and SVM), we identified six core toxic targets of BPA in AD: TIGIT, JAK3, IL22, S100A8, CCL2, and FCER1G. These six targets fall into two main functional categories: immune dysregulation and inflammatory cell infiltration. Subsequent molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation experiments confirmed that BPA binds well to all six targets and can form stable complexes with them. Collectively, our findings offer a preliminary experimental foundation for future investigations into the pathogenesis of BPA-induced AD and provide important molecular evidence for understanding how environment-gene interactions contribute to complex inflammatory skin diseases such as AD.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42508199 is a review article
T cell exhaustion remains a barrier to adoptive cell therapies. Although γc cytokines are used to expand T cells, their impact on T cell states remains incompletely defined. Using an in vitro model of repetitive TCR stimulation, we found that high-dose IL-2 or IL-15 promoted exhausted CD8⁺ T cell (TEX) differentiation, with increased inhibitory receptor expression and loss of stem-like features. During chronic LCMV Clone 13 infection, high IL2Rβ expression marked virus-specific CD8⁺ T cells with features of terminally exhausted TEX cells, whereas IL2Rβ deficiency favored progenitor-like populations. In TEX cells, IL-2 and IL-15 preferentially induced STAT5 phosphorylation over other signaling pathways. Genetic disruption of STAT5 similarly supported progenitor subsets, implicating STAT5 in the progression toward more differentiated TEX states under chronic stimulation. We therefore asked whether transient STAT5 attenuation during in vitro T cell expansion could bias differentiation toward progenitor-like populations without compromising functional competence. Transient JAK3 or STAT5 inhibition enriched TCF1⁺Ly108⁺ progenitor-like cells while preserving cytokine production and degranulation capacity. Following transfer into tumor-bearing mice, cells expanded under STAT5-inhibited (STAT5i) conditions mediated superior tumor control and prolonged survival. Likewise, transient STAT5 inhibition preserved memory-progenitor phenotypes in human CD22 CAR T cells without impairing cytotoxicity. RNA sequencing of STAT5i-expanded CD8⁺ T cells confirmed reinforced stem-like transcriptional programs and reduced enrichment of effector and exhausted signatures. Together, these findings identify the IL-2Rβ-STAT5 axis as a regulator of CD8⁺ T cell differentiation and support transient STAT5 modulation during ex vivo expansion to improve therapeutic T cell products.
Bitter taste receptors are distributed in various non-taste tissues and cells, where they exert crucial roles in neuroimmune regulation and inflammatory response. In this study, a mouse model of fine particle (FPs) exposure was established by nebulized ovalbumin (OVA) inhalation to investigate the effects of FPs on renal function and structure. The experiment results revealed that inhalation of OVA led to glomerular atrophy, and renal tubular epithelial cell swelling and vacuolization, accompanied by increased levels of blood urea nitrogen and creatinine in the bloodstream. OVA inhalation induced a significant elevation in the levels of H2O2 and malondialdehyde (MDA), while significantly decreased the activity of total superoxide dismutase (T-SOD) and the content of glutathione (GSH) in renal tissues. Furthermore, OVA downregulated Th1 cytokine IFN-γ, upregulated Th2 cytokines IL-4, IL-5 and IL-13, and activated pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6) as well as genes involved in inflammatory pathways (TLR-2, TLR-4, MyD88, NF-κB, JAK-1, JAK-2, JAK-3, STAT-3, STAT-6). Notably, OVA-induced kidney injury was accompanied by the downregulation of bitter taste receptors and their downstream signaling molecules (α-gustducin, transient receptor potential melastatin 5 [Trpm5]). However, gavage administration of multi-strain probiotics significantly alleviated the toxic effects of OVA on the mouse kidneys, as evidenced by the reversal of the aforementioned abnormal changes in renal structure, biochemical indicators, oxidative stress markers, inflammatory factors, and bitter taste transduction-related molecules. Collectively, these findings indicate that OVA-induced distal organ injury, particularly renal injury, is associated with systemic inflammation and the inhibition of bitter taste transduction pathways. The protective effect of multi-strain probiotics on OVA-inhaled mice is correlated with the activation of bitter taste transduction, as well as the regulation of immune balance and inflammatory responses.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Stem cell factor (SCF), also known as Kit ligand, is a pleiotropic cytokine that signals through the c-Kit receptor to regulate cellular development, survival, and proliferation. Although SCF is classically recognized for its essential role in hematopoiesis and mast cell biology, c-Kit is also expressed by innate lymphoid cell progenitors (ILCp) and subsets of mature innate lymphoid cells (ILCs), suggesting broader immunoregulatory functions. Group 2 innate lymphoid cells (ILC2s) are critical mediators of type 2 airway inflammation and serve as an important source of type 2 cytokines during allergic responses. We previously demonstrated increased expression of the pro-inflammatory SCF248 isoform in the lungs of mice with chronic allergic inflammation, while elevated soluble SCF levels have also been reported in patients with asthma. In the present study, we further observed that SCF248 is upregulated in the bone marrow during allergic inflammation, suggesting that SCF248 may contribute to both local and systemic regulation of allergic immune responses. To define the role of SCF/c-Kit signaling in ILC2 biology, we first performed transcriptional profiling of SCF-deficient ILC2s, which revealed reduced expression of genes associated with cytokine signaling, activation, and effector function, including Il4, Stat5b, and PI3K-AKT pathway components, consistent with impaired inflammatory responsiveness. Mechanistically, pro-inflammatory and type 2 cytokines induced SCF248 expression in mesenchymal cells in vitro. To define its functional impact, ILC progenitors were cultured on OP9-DL1 stromal cells with upregulated SCF248 expression, which increased expression of ILC2-associated markers and the maturation program, supporting a role for SCF248 in enhancing ILC2 maturation and activation. In vivo validation using tamoxifen-inducible whole-body SCF-deficient mice (SCFfl/fl; UBC-CreERT2) in an Alternaria alternata model of allergic airway inflammation demonstrated that SCF deficiency reduced SCF248 expression, attenuated type 2 cytokine production, diminished lung inflammation, and decreased circulating and pulmonary ILC2 populations. Similarly, SCF248 blockade reduced allergic inflammation and altered bone marrow ILC compartments. Together, these findings identify SCF248 as a regulator of ILC2 maturation and activation, amplifying mucosal type 2 inflammation during allergic airway disease.Copyright © 2026 Asai, Lombardo, Ocadiz-Ruiz, Gu, Rasky, Garcia, Montoya, Montaño, Yagi and Fonseca.
Autophagy is an ancient catabolic process that has emerged as part of innate immunity. Upon infection, autophagy is activated but the key factors responsible remained unclear. Here, we show that interferon (IFN) released during viral infections subsequently activates autophagy via STAT1/5B-mediated upregulation of Suppressor of Cytokine Signaling 1 (SOCS1). Our data show that scavenging of IFNs diminishes autophagy induced by several respiratory viruses. All types of IFN (I, II and III) mediated robust autophagic flux activation in both cell lines and primary human lung fibroblasts in a JAK1-3 dependent manner. Depletion or pharmacological inhibition of individual signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) transcription factors demonstrated that both STAT1 and STAT5B are required for IFN-induced autophagy. Upon IFN stimulation STAT1 and STAT5B associate and translocate to the nucleus. Transcriptome analyses revealed that most known anti-viral IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs) remain induced to high levels upon inhibition of STAT5 expect for a small subset of ISGs, among them SOCS1. Overexpression of SOCS1 stimulated autophagy, whereas its depletion impaired IFN-induced autophagy. Successful viruses like measles virus (MeV) or respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) evolved strategies to exploit autophagy to promote their own replication. Uncoupling IFN-mediated ISG defenses from autophagy induction by STAT5 inhibition reduced virus-induced autophagy, and inhibited efficient replication of autophagy-dependent MeV and RSV. Overexpression of SOCS1 upon STAT5 inhibition largely rescued both infection-induced autophagy and viral replication. Taken together, our data show that IFN promotes autophagy via STAT1/STAT5B-SOCS1 in viral infections and reveal that targeting of this axis allows inhibition of autophagy-dependent viruses without compromising innate immune defenses.Copyright: © 2026 Hunszinger et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Excessive or inappropriate radiation can seriously harm organisms. Radiation-induced thymus injury (RITI) is a severe complication driven by dysregulated RNA networks. However, current studies have mostly focused on single non-coding RNAs or late pathological stages, and a complete competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) regulatory network had not been constructed. The thymus tissues of C57BL/6 mice exposed to 6 Gy X-ray radiation for 24 h were analyzed by RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) with library construction. We functionally annotated target messenger RNAs (mRNAs) and predicted long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) -targeted microRNAs (miRNAs) and miRNA-targeted mRNAs post-irradiation, to construct the lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA ceRNA regulatory axis. Furthermore, multiple experimental approaches including quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR), western blotting, flow cytometry and CCK-8 cell viability assays were utilized to validate the involvement of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-Protein Kinase B (PKB or AKT) pathway. The results revealed that after irradiation, 6214 mRNAs, 160 miRNAs, and 1999 lncRNAs were significantly upregulated while 2676 mRNAs, 165 miRNAs, and 941 lncRNAs were considerably downregulated. The most significantly altered Gene Ontology (GO) terms were angiogenesis and ameboid cell migration (Biological Process, BP), actin cytoskeleton and cell-cell junctions (Cellular Component, CC), as well as actin binding and phospholipid binding (Molecular Function, MF). A total of 333 cellular functions mediated by phosphatase and tensin homologue deleted on chromosome ten (PTEN) exhibited significant alterations, whereas 175 cellular functions regulated by 3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase 1 (PDPK1) showed substantial changes. Key biological pathways, including cancer-associated pathways, the PI3K-AKT signaling pathway, the human papillomavirus infection pathway, the focal adhesion pathway, the Rap1 signaling pathway, and the cardiomyocyte calcium signaling pathway, were uncovered through Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis. Based on the results of both GO enrichment analysis and KEGG pathway analysis, a consistent conclusion was drawn that RITI was closely associated with the PI3K-AKT signaling pathway. So the PI3K-AKT pathway was selected for experimental validation, which confirmed that it was a key regulatory pathway for thymic degeneration in RITI. A lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA ceRNA axis of RITI was successfully developed in a mouse model after irradiation. The PI3K-AKT pathway contributes to preventing radiation-induced cell death in RITI, and the differentially expressed RNAs in the initial stage of this injury may result in serious consequences.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Dysregulation of the phosphoinositide 3-kinase/protein kinase B (AKT)/mechanistic target of rapamycin pathway is a hallmark of breast cancer, making AKT a focus of therapeutic interest. AKT inhibitor-IV is a benzimidazolium compound that inhibits AKT phosphorylation, but its activity and binding mechanism in breast cancer cells have not been characterized in detail. We compared AKT inhibitor-IV with tamoxifen in MCF-7 cells. Cell viability after 24-h treatment was measured by 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5 diphenyl tetrazolium bromide assay (AKT inhibitor-IV: 0.1-5 μM; tamoxifen: 5-50 μM); apoptotic death was quantified by nucleosome ELISA; and AKT1, BCL-2, BAX, and CASP3 mRNA levels were measured by quantitative real-time PCR. Both compounds were docked into the ATP-binding pockets of 3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase-1 (PDK1) (PDB 1H1W) and AKT1 (PDB 3MVH) using AutoDock Vina v1.2.6. AKT inhibitor-IV reduced viability with an IC50 of 1.1 μM, compared with 5.2 μM for tamoxifen, and induced 5.9-fold apoptosis enrichment versus 3.65-fold for tamoxifen. AKT inhibitor-IV downregulated AKT1 (0.32-fold) and BCL-2 (0.55-fold) and upregulated BAX (5.97-fold) and CASP3 (6.43-fold) mRNA; tamoxifen showed qualitatively similar but quantitatively weaker transcriptional changes. Docking returned affinities of -9.91 kcal/mol for PDK1 and -9.66 kcal/mol for AKT1, with AKT inhibitor-IV contacting catalytic-core residues of both kinases. AKT inhibitor-IV was more potent than tamoxifen in this in-vitro setting and warrants further preclinical evaluation. Because MCF-7 cells carry the CASP3 exon 3 deletion and lack functional caspase-3 protein, the observed CASP3 mRNA upregulation reflects transcriptional reprogramming rather than restored executioner activity. The modest docking difference requires biochemical confirmation before any PDK1-versus-AKT1 selectivity claim can be established.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
3-Phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase 1 (PDK1) is a central kinase in the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/serine-threonine kinase (PI3K/Akt) pathway that integrates growth and nutrient signals to regulate metabolism and development across diverse animal taxa. However, its functions in insects remain ambiguous.Here, we identify and characterize PxPDK1 in the diamondback moth, Plutella xylostella, a major agricultural pest. PxPDK1 encodes a conserved kinase containing serine/threonine kinase and pleckstrin homology domains, and is highly expressed during embryonic, pupal and adult stages. CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockout of PxPDK1 resulted in developmental delay, failure of pupal-adult eclosion, impaired ovarian development, and sharply reduced fecundity and egg hatchability. Loss of PxPDK1 attenuated Akt phosphorylation and disrupted genes involved in metabolism, reproduction and cuticle formation, accompanied by decreased adult glycogen content. Conversely, PxPDK1 expression promoted Sf9 cell proliferation.These findings establish PxPDK1 as an essential regulator of insect development and metabolism, highlighting PDK1 as a promising molecular target for pest control. © 2026 Society of Chemical Industry.© 2026 Society of Chemical Industry.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42259783
AKT1 is classically known as a serine/threonine kinase controlling cell survival and proliferation, yet its kinase-independent functions remain poorly understood. Here we show that recognition of dsRNA viral capsids by membrane-associated HSP90AA1 disrupts the HSP90-AKT1 interaction, inducing AKT1 dephosphorylation at Thr308. This non-phosphorylated AKT1 acts as a scaffold to recruit PDPK1 and SQSTM1, enabling PDPK1-dependent phosphorylation of SQSTM1 at Ser349 and selective loading of viral capsids into LC3C-positive phagophores for degradation. An IBDV capsid mutant defective in SQSTM1 binding escapes this pathway. In vivo, expression of non-phosphorylatable AKT1 suppresses rotavirus replication in a SQSTM1-dependent manner. These findings identify an HSP90-initiated, kinase-independent AKT1 signaling axis that licenses antiviral macroautophagy/autophagy.Abbreviations: AKT1: AKT serine/threonine kinase 1; CQ: chloroquine; dpi: days post-infection; dsRNA: double-stranded RNA; GABARAPL1: GABA type A receptor associated protein like 1; hpi: hour post infection; HSP90AA1: heat shock protein 90 alpha family class A member 1; IBDV: infectious bursal disease virus; KO: knockout; LIR: LC3-interacting region; MAP1LC3C/LC3C: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 gamma; MOI: multiplicity of infection; PDPK1: 3-phosphoinositide dependent protein kinase 1; rVP2: recombinant His-tagged VP2; rVP4: recombinant His-tagged VP4; RV: rotavirus; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; WT: wild-type.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42014335 is a review article
The early postnatal period is a critical window for brain maturation, during which oligodendrogenesis, myelination, and synaptogenesis are dynamically orchestrated to support cognitive development. Clinical studies have associated myelination deficits with intellectual disability (ID), but the molecular mechanisms linking myelin deficits to cognitive dysfunction remain poorly understood. Here, we generated an inducible conditional knockout (icKO) mouse model to selectively ablate 3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase-1 (PDK1) in oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) during early postnatal development. Pdk1 icKO mice exhibited severe deficits in hippocampal oligodendrocyte (OL) maturation, myelination, and excitatory synaptogenesis, accompanied by impaired neuronal activation and profound memory impairments. Mechanistically, PDK1 loss led to suppression of the Akt-mTOR signaling pathway, a critical regulator of OL differentiation and myelination. Strikingly, treatment with clemastine, an FDA-approved pro-myelinating agent, effectively restored oligodendrogenesis, myelination, synaptic integrity, neuronal activity, and cognitive performance in Pdk1 icKO mice, in part by reactivating Akt-mTOR signaling. Together, these findings identify PDK1 as a pivotal regulator of postnatal myelination and cognitive maturation, establish a mechanistic link between oligodendroglial dysfunction and ID, and highlight clemastine as a promising therapeutic candidate for cognitive disorders associated with myelination deficits.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41928774 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 41270611 is a review article
The Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) diet reduces blood pressure and cardiovascular disease risk, but its impact on later coronary artery calcium (CAC) progression is unclear. This study aimed to identify DASH score trajectories from early to middle adulthood and assess their association with CAC progression in middle age, exploring the potential mediating factors.We conducted a prospective analysis of 2238 Black and White adults who were aged 18 to 30 years at CARDIA (Coronary Artery Risk Development in Young Adults) baseline and were followed from study year 20 to year 25. DASH score trajectories from early to middle adulthood were determined using latent class analysis. The primary end point was CAC progression, a validated measure of plaque progression, defined as a >2.5 square root increase in CAC score between years 20 and 25.Two distinct DASH score trajectories were identified: the low-increasing and high-decreasing trajectories. In the fully adjusted model, participants in the high-decreasing trajectory had a 21% lower risk of CAC progression compared with those in the low-increasing trajectory (hazard ratio, 0.79 [95% CI, 0.65-0.98]; P=0.028). The association was partially mediated by diastolic blood pressure, insulin, uric acid, and lipid profiles.DASH score trajectories vary from early to middle adulthood. Maintaining high adherence to the DASH diet from early to middle adulthood is associated with reduced CAC progression in middle age, partially mediated by cardiometabolic risk factors. These findings support the importance of long-term adherence to a healthy dietary pattern for cardiovascular disease primary prevention. REGISTRATION: URL: https://www.clinicaltrials.gov; unique identifier: NCT00005130.
Adiposity increases the risk of post-menopausal oestrogen receptor (ER)-positive breast cancer. Inflammation, insulin, and insulin-like growth factors and sex-steroid hormones may explain this effect. We performed interventional mediation analysis to estimate the effects of hypothetical interventions targeting these pathways in females with obesity on reducing their excess risk of post-menopausal ER-positive breast cancer relative to females with normal weight.The mediation analysis included 1260 post-menopausal females (352 with ER-positive breast cancer) from a case-cohort within the Melbourne Collaborative Cohort Study. A Monte Carlo g-computation approach with non-parametric bootstrapping was used to estimate the risk differences (RDs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for interventional direct and indirect effects of hypothetical interventions that shift the joint distribution of inflammation, insulin, and sex-steroid hormone biomarkers in females with obesity to the levels observed in females with normal weight.The estimated RD for the total effect of obesity relative to normal weight on post-menopausal ER-positive breast cancer was 16.1 (95% CI: 3.3, 30.4) per 1000 females. The RDs for indirect effects through inflammation, insulin, and sex-steroid hormones were 16.4 (95% CI: 4.3, 27.2), -8.4 (95% CI: -23.4, 1.2), and 13.0 (95% CI: 3.3, 23.7) per 1000 females, respectively. The - RD for the direct effect not via any of these three pathways was -5.3 (95% CI: -17.4, 10.6) per 1000 females.Inflammation and sex-steroid hormones, but not insulin, contributed to the detrimental effect of adiposity on the risk of post-menopausal ER-positive breast cancer. Interventions targeting these pathways may reduce the risk for females with obesity.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the International Epidemiological Association. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Loss of functional β cells is a hallmark of diabetes, and restoring β cell mass remains a critical goal in the quest for a specific therapy. One potential strategy is to convert non-β cells in the islet, such as α cells, into insulin-producing cells. Although several compounds have been identified to induce β cell-like features in α cells, none have been successfully translated into clinical applications. In this study, we identify PRC2 inhibitors as potent inducers of β cell-enriched gene expression in α cells, acting through modulation of the AR-ETV1 complex. AR inhibition suppresses glycogen synthesis and enhances the pentose phosphate pathway. Direct metabolic reprogramming with methyl esterified 6-phosphogluconate, an intermediate metabolite of the pentose phosphate pathway, induces β cell-like features in α cells, stimulates β cell regeneration and ameliorates diabetes. Our findings demonstrate that metabolic reprogramming drives β cell regeneration and highlight a promising therapeutic strategy for diabetes.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.
The Lipid Accumulation Product (LAP) is recognized as an indicator of lipid-induced cellular stress. While its predictive value for conditions like diabetes, liver disease, and metabolic syndrome is established, its specific correlations with individual metabolic and hematological markers within the context of obesity remain less defined. This study sought to comprehensively investigate the links between LAP and a spectrum of metabolic and hematological biomarkers in individuals with obesity. This cross-sectional study involved 304 obese participants. Standard anthropometric measurements [weight, height, waist and hip circumference (WC, HC)] were taken, and dietary intake was assessed via a food frequency questionnaire. Blood samples were analyzed for glucose, insulin, hemoglobin A1C, serum lipids [total cholesterol, triglycerides, low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C)], and a complete blood cell count. LAP was calculated using WC and triglyceride levels. Participants were categorized into three tertiles based on their LAP values. Individuals in the highest LAP tertile had significantly higher body weight, body mass index, WC, and waist-to-hip ratio than those in the lowest tertile (all P < 0.05). Higher LAP tertiles were also associated with increased systolic and diastolic blood pressure, total cholesterol, triglycerides, and reduced HDL-C levels after adjustment for potential confounders. In addition, white blood cell count and mean corpuscular hemoglobin remained significantly higher across LAP tertiles in the fully adjusted models. Supplementary receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis demonstrated good discriminatory performance of LAP for identifying metabolic syndrome (AUC = 0.833; 95% CI: 0.779-0.887). Higher LAP was independently associated with an adverse cardiometabolic profile, characterized by greater adiposity, unfavorable lipid parameters, elevated blood pressure, and selected hematological alterations in adults with obesity. These findings support the potential utility of LAP as a simple and accessible marker for identifying individuals at increased cardiometabolic risk. However, prospective studies are needed to determine its predictive value and establish temporal relationships.© 2026. The Author(s).
The reliability of noninvasive methods to detect metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease and metabolic-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) or advanced liver disease remains uncertain.To test the hypothesis that routine liver biopsy (LB) during metabolic and bariatric surgery (MBS) at an academic center would identify a high prevalence of MASH with minimal operative risk.Single-center metabolic and bariatric surgery accreditation and quality improvement center in Louisiana and national metabolic and bariatric surgery accreditation and quality improvement data, 2020-2023.Institutional and national MBS cases were analyzed. Patients aged <18 years, open procedures, conversions/revisions, and missing biopsy results (institutional data) were excluded. LB characteristics and case outcomes were examined using logistic regression to determine the association of postoperative complications.A total of 980 institutional cases and 695,343 national cases were identified. Local routine LB prevalence was 48%, while national prevalence for LB was 3.5%. Routine LB locally revealed steatosis in 71.8%, nonalcoholic steatohepatitis in 31.6%, and fibrosis in 20.6%. Black race was associated with lower odds of steatosis (odds ratio [OR]: .34), MASH (OR: .28), and fibrosis (OR: .45). In contrast, hypertension (OR: 1.93) and insulin-dependent diabetes (OR: 2.66) were associated with increased nonalcoholic steatohepatitis risk. Postoperative complications were not different between routine LB and non-LB patients locally (P > .05). Cases with LB nationally had slightly lower estimates of complications, although small but significant differences were observed with the larger sample.Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease/MASH is highly prevalent in MBS. Not only is LB safe and not risk prohibitive but it also identifies advanced liver disease that is generally poorly detected preoperatively and can affect postoperative treatment and outcomes.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the long-term effectiveness of the FreeStyle Libre 2 device in reducing time below range levels 1 (TBR-1) and 2 (TBR-2), compared with the first-generation FreeStyle Libre device without alarms, in people with type 1 diabetes mellitus. A longitudinal observational pre-post study of a single cohort was conducted in a cohort of 93 people with type 1 diabetes mellitus who switched from FreeStyle Libre to FreeStyle Libre 2 in routine clinical practice. At 24 months post-switch, significant improvements were observed in TBR-1 (p = 0.001) and TBR-2 (p < 0.001). A significant direct association was identified between years with diabetes mellitus and change in total basal insulin dose from T0 to T1, with a coefficient of 0.14. Additionally, a significant inverse association was found between annual income and coefficient of variation, with a coefficient of -6.3, as well as between annual income and TBR-2, with a coefficient of -2.45. Switching to a flash glucose monitoring system with alarms was associated with improvements at 24 months in time below range, coefficient of variation, and HbA1c in individuals with type 1 diabetes mellitus.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Diabetes is characterized by impaired glucose homeostasis resulting from dysfunction and loss of insulin-producing islet β cells, with oxidative stress emerging as a contributor to β-cell injury. The polyamines (putrescine, spermidine, spermine) regulate cellular stress responses, and their metabolism can generate reactive oxygen species (ROS) and reactive aldehydes via catabolic enzymes such as spermine oxidase (Smox) and polyamine oxidase (Paox). Transcriptomic analyses of mouse and human islets exposed to proinflammatory cytokines revealed induction of the gene encoding Smox but no change in the gene encoding Paox, suggesting a role for Smox in amplifying inflammation-associated stress in islets. In developing zebrafish, the smox gene is expressed in the pancreas and enriched within endocrine cells. Using a β-cell-specific ROS-inducible zebrafish model, smox gene knockdown reduced intra-islet ROS and macrophage recruitment. Metabolomics of zebrafish embryos showed that Smox deficiency did not affect spermine or spermidine levels but led to accumulation of acetylated polyamines, consistent with the rerouting of polyamine flux through alternative acetylation pathways. RNA sequencing of zebrafish embryos demonstrated that Smox deficiency induces distinct transcriptional programs, with enrichment of cell cycle and RNA processing pathways at baseline and reprogramming of stress, translational, and immune-associated pathways during injury. Mechanistically, Smox is the primary polyamine pathway generating ROS in zebrafish, as reducing flux through the Paox-dependent pathway did not reduce ROS production. These findings support a model in which Smox amplifies β-cell stress through peroxide- and aldehyde-mediated toxicity and identify polyamine catabolism as a modifiable pathway in the setting of β-cell injury.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567497 is a review article
Early-life maternal high-saturated fat (HSF) exposure increases offspring susceptibility to type 2 diabetes, but mechanisms linking it to β-cell dysfunction remain poorly defined. This study aimed to identify key miRNAs mediating this programming and evaluate their therapeutic potential. Female mice were fed control, high-lard, or high-palm oil diets during gestation and lactation. Islets from adult male offspring were isolated for miRNA sequencing to identify candidates. β-cell-specific overexpression of miR-1a-3p was achieved via AAV8-Ins1 vector. Proteomics analysis was performed to screen its downstream targets. miR-1a-3p was the only miRNA showing interactive effects between maternal and offspring diets. It was upregulated in male offspring islets, further exacerbated by late-adulthood HFD re-exposure. Functionally, miR-1a-3p overexpression increased fasting glucose, impaired glucose and insulin tolerance, reduced ATP production and mitochondrial membrane potential, without affecting apoptosis. NBR1 was confirmed as a direct target of miR-1a-3p. NBR1 silencing mimicked miR-1a-3p's detrimental effects on β-cell mitochondria and function. Inhibition of miR-1a-3p alleviated HFD-induced β-cell dysfunction. miR-1a-3p mediates β-cell dysfunction programmed by early-life maternal HSF exposure through targeting NBR1 and disrupting mitochondrial function, representing a potential therapeutic strategy for preventing type 2 diabetes transmission.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567418 is a review article
The insulin signaling pathway is a core and evolutionarily conserved signal transduction network. Here we study hypomorphic mutant conditions in the sole insulin receptor gene (Inr) in the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster, placed at the beginning of the signaling cascade where it mediates the effects from the seven Drosophila insulin-like peptides. As such, it sits at a nodal point where signaling must pass to ensure and carry out all the functions ascribed to this anabolic pathway. We find that these mutant flies, while viable, exhibit hyperactivity and accumulate glycogen and body lipids. The hyperactivity phenotype was characterized in detail and is significantly different from controls both measuring it in several days' spells, or when done in a more detailed fashion in shorter time periods (twenty-five minutes). The proportion of time spent sleeping is also altered, highlighting the robust role that the insulin pathway has not only regulating metabolism but also behavior. When confronted with mild pro-oxidative conditions, these flies and control wildtype flies have reduced lifespans as well. The metabolic dysregulation is rescued when the Inr mutant flies are also heterozygous for keap1, a negative regulator of the Nrf2 pathway, while the antioxidant response and the activity/sleep levels exhibit only partial and sexually dimorphic improvements. Transcriptomic analyses of Inr mutants show that many metabolism and hormonal signaling genes are dysregulated.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Insulin resistance is a deficiency in insulin-mediated regulation of glucose metabolism and is considered a cause of multiple diseases such as diabetes and hypertension. Because the insulin signaling pathway plays a central role in insulin action, it has been extensively studied in the context of insulin resistance. However, the insulin signaling pathway's contribution to insulin resistance remains incompletely understood. Insulin receptor (IR) mutations can cause insulin resistance; however, reduced IR expression in obesity may still permit sufficient signaling due to the characteristics of IR, known as the spare receptor hypothesis. Selective insulin resistance, in which glucose metabolism is impaired while other pathways remain intact, further complicates insulin resistance. Nevertheless, our understanding of how the insulin signaling pathway contributes to these unresolved issues remains limited. To elucidate these mechanisms, we developed mathematical models of the hepatic insulin signaling pathway in mice with diet-induced obesity and found that changes in protein expression levels can largely account for signal attenuation. Insulin resistance was characterized using two indices: sensitivity shift and responsiveness shift. We found a trade-off between the two, whereby loss of responsiveness from upstream decreases was compensated for by decreases in downstream sensitivity. The excess of receptors conferred robustness to receptor decreases via the signaling pathway. Incoherent-feedforward-loop regulation maintained some signaling despite attenuation, potentially explaining selective insulin resistance. These findings provide deeper insights into insulin resistance and quantitative mechanisms underlying signaling pathway regulation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Refractory hypoglycemia is common in malignant insulin-secreting tumors and is associated with substantial morbidity. Ersodetug is a fully human monoclonal antibody that allosterically attenuates insulin receptor signaling with the potential to treat various forms of hyperinsulinism (HI). We retrospectively report outcomes from compassionate use of ersodetug in eight individuals with refractory hypoglycemia due to tumor HI.Ersodetug was administered intravenously at 6 or 9 mg/kg every 1-2 weeks initially, followed by a frequency of every 2-5 weeks, as appropriate. Glycemic, functional, and safety outcomes were analyzed.Eight adults (4 M/4F; 24-74 years; Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) 1-3) received ersodetug for insulin-secreting tumors (metastatic insulinoma, n = 7; cervical neuroendocrine carcinoma, n = 1). No drug-related serious adverse events were observed. Most patients experienced improved glycemic control, including discontinuation of parenteral glucose in 6 of the 7 applicable patients (median, 4.5 days) and a 35.6% relative reduction from baseline in time in hypoglycemia (<70 mg/dL) by continuous glucose monitoring (mean 12.4% to 8.0%; pseudo-median paired change of -3.8 percentage points [90% CI, -8.2 to -1,1; P = 0.02). These glycemic improvements permitted hospital discharge and reductions in other antihypoglycemic therapies beyond glucose infusion rate (pseudo-median change, -2.5; 90% CI, -3.5 to -1.0; P = 0.02), with associated improvements in ECOG status. The median treatment duration with ersodetug (11.5 months, range 5-17) tended to correspond to patient lifespan in the setting of metastatic disease.Ersodetug therapy resulted in reduced hypoglycemia burden, ability to discontinue parenteral glucose infusion, allowing discharge from hospital, use of fewer antihypoglycemic therapies, and improved ECOG performance status in individuals with severe, refractory tumor HI.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42554920 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42548211
To investigate the effect of miR-100-5p on the biological behaviors of pediatric acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells by targeting insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF1R ).QRT-PCR was used to detect the expression levels of miR-100-5p and IGF1R mRNA in AML cell lines (THP-1, TF-1a, HL-60) and serum of children with AML. The dual-luciferase reporter gene assay was applied to verify the targeting relationship between miR-100-5p and IGF1R . THP-1 cells were assigned into Control group, miR-NC group, miR-100-5p mimics group, miR-100-5p mimics+pcDNA group, and miR-100-5p mimics+IGF1R group. The colony formation assay, scratch healing assay, and transwell assay were used to detect the proliferation, migration, and invasion abilities of THP-1 cells in each group, and Western blot assay was used to detect the protein expression of IGF1R, PCNA, MMP-2, MMP-9, E-cadherin, N-cadherin, and Vimentin.The expression level of IGF1R mRNA was significantly increased, while the expression level of miR-100-5p was significantly decreased in both the serum of pediatric AML patients and THP-1 cells (P < 0.001). Analysis via the StarBase database predicted the presence of potential binding sites between miR-100-5p and IGF1R . Compared with the miR-NC group, in the miR-100-5p mimics group, the number of colonies formed, scratch healing rate, and number of invasive cells of THP-1 cells were significantly decreased; the protein expression levels of IGF1R, PCNA, MMP-2, MMP-9, N-cadherin, and Vimentin were significantly decreased, while the expression level of miR-100-5p and the protein expression level of E-cadherin were significantly increased (all P < 0.05). Compared with the miR-100-5p mimics+pcDNA group, in the miR-100-5p mimics+IGF1R group, the number of colonies formed, scratch healing rate, and number of invasive cells were significantly increased; the protein expression levels of IGF1R, PCNA, MMP-2, MMP-9, N-cadherin, and Vimentin were significantly increased, while the protein expression level of E-cadherin was significantly decreased (all P < 0.05).Overexpression of miR-100-5p can targetedly inhibit IGF1R , thereby suppressing the proliferation, migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of AML cells.
Aluminum causes learning and memory impairments, and is an environmental and occupational toxicant. This in vivo and in vitro study assessed the implications of Lnc_000151 on aluminum-induced neurotoxicity through competitive binding to miR-96-5p. Fifty-six male SpragueDawley rats were randomly divided into eight groups: untreated, sham-operated, saline + sham-operated, Al(mal)₃ + sham-operated, saline + AAV-NC, Al(mal)₃ + AAV-NC, saline + AAV-Lnc_000151 shRNA, and Al(mal)₃ + AAV-Lnc_000151 shRNA. PC12 cells were separated into groups of 0, 100, 200, and 400 µM Al (mal)₃, and transfection groups including Lnc_000151 NC/siRNA, miR-96-5p NC/inhibitor, and IRS1 NC/siRNA. The learning and memory functions of rats were assessed via Morris water maze. Hippocampal CA1 neuronal count and synaptic structure were detected with hematoxylin-eosin staining and transmission electron microscopy. Cell apoptosis was measured using flow cytometry. Relative expression of Lnc_000151, miR-96-5p, and the IRS1/AKT/GSK3β pathway was determined using RT-PCR and Western blotting. The dual-luciferase assay confirmed targeted binding of Lnc_000151 to miR-96-5p and miR-96-5p to IRS1. In vivo and in vitro experiments demonstrated that under aluminum exposure, inhibition of Lnc_000151 expression exacerbated learning and memory impairments, neuronal loss, synaptic damage, increased Tau and p-Tau (Ser396) expression, and cell apoptosis. In vitro experiments further verified that under aluminum exposure and Lnc_000151 inhibition, suppressing miR-96-5p expression reduced Tau and p-Tau (Ser396) expression and cell apoptosis, while activating the IRS1/AKT/GSK3β pathway. However, further inhibition of IRS1 expression abrogated these ameliorative effects. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that Lnc_000151 can competitively bind to miR-96-5p in a competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA)-dependent manner, thereby regulating IRS1 expression, modulating the AKT/GSK3β pathway, and affecting aluminum-induced neurotoxicity.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Women with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) are more likely to develop cardiovascular disease (CVD) within 3 to 10 years following pregnancy. Despite a return to normoglycemia shortly after gestation, GDM mothers still possess an increased risk of future CVD. In this study, we use a novel preclinical hormonal model of GDM to examine the mechanisms underlying future vascular and cardiac dysfunction in mothers with a history of GDM. We treated 16-week-old pregnant C57BL/6J mice with the insulin receptor antagonist (S961; 30nmol/kg, s.c.) from gestational day (GD) 7 (second trimester of pregnancy) until delivery to induce GDM. GDM mice developed systolic and diastolic dysfunction, arterial stiffness, hypertension, increased cardiac mass, and exercise intolerance at 10 weeks postpartum compared with saline-treated pregnant or S961-treated virgin mice. We also observed decreased plasma nitric oxide (NO) and increased endothelin-1 (ET-1) in GDM. The aorta of S961-induced GDM mice had increased pulse wave velocity, impaired vascular relaxation, remodeling, elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and adhesion molecules, increased ET-1 type A receptor expression, and reduced sirtuin-1 (SIRT-1) expression. The left ventricle of S961-induced GDM mice exhibited fibrosis, thickness, and increased ROS production. Additionally, alterations in cardiac kinase activity in the nitric oxide/cyclic guanosine monophosphate/protein kinase G (NO/cGMP/PRKG) and AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) alpha pathways were observed at 10 weeks postpartum using novel Pamgene kinome technology. Thus, endothelin activation, suppressed NO/cGMP/PRKG signaling, impaired AMPK, and altered SIRT1 may be responsible for the development of vascular stiffness and cardiac dysfunction in mothers with a history of GDM.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42509809 is a review article
Neuronal hyperexcitability is crucial to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Activating the Kv7 channel is an effective way to reduce neuronal excitability. The Kv7 channel opener retigabine (RTG) has been demonstrated to alleviate spatial memory deficits in APP/PS1 transgenic mice. However, the mechanism by which RTG reduces cognitive deficits in APP/PS1 mice remains unclear. In this study, we revealed that RTG could ameliorate learning and spatial memory deficits in APP/PS1 mice during novel object recognition and Morris water maze tests. Meanwhile, RTG increased NeuN neuronal fluorescence intensity, increased the expression of the synaptic proteins postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD95) and synaptophysin (SYN), improved synaptic plasticity, increased insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE) expression, decreased beta-secretase 1 (BACE1) expression, reduced Aβ1-40 and Aβ1-42 levels, and increased pAKT (ser473) and pGSK-3β (ser9) expression. These results indicated that RTG alleviates learning and spatial memory deficits in APP/PS1 mice, with potential mechanisms involving a reduction in neuronal loss, attenuation of synaptic damage, a decrease in β-amyloid (Aβ) deposition, and activation of the AKT/GSK-3β pathway.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) poses a significant threat to human health, and with the number of patients increasing annually, developing effective prevention and treatment strategies has become an urgent priority. Early intervention is a viable strategy for treating AD, as biomarker changes associated with β-amyloid (Aβ) can emerge 20 or more years before cognitive impairment becomes apparent. Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) offers a potential avenue for treatment at this early stage.This study investigated the potential therapeutic effects of the Yin Huang Ge compound on cognitive function in a mouse model of AD and evaluated its efficacy in mitigating Aβ accumulation, a key pathological feature of AD.APP/PS1 mice were randomly assigned to the following groups: Controls (C57BL/6 J mice) group, the Model group, YHG group, and donepezil (DNP) group. The YHG group and the DNP group were administered their respective drugs through gastric gavage, whereas the normal group and the Model group were supplied with saline. Administration sustained for a period of 30 consecutive days. We assessed mouse learning, memory, and spatial cognition using the Morris water maze, novel object recognition, Y-maze spontaneous alternation, and novel arm tests. Western blotting quantified the protein levels of β-amyloid 1-42 (Aβ1-42), insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE), neprilysin (NEP), matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2), and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9). ELISA measured IDE and NEP enzymatic activity, while immunohistochemistry evaluated the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3).In contrast to the Control group, mice in the Model group exhibited significant impairments in learning, memory, and spatial cognition. The protein expression levels of Aβ1-42, MMP-2, and MMP-9 were markedly elevated (p < 0.01), whereas the expression of IDE and NEP was significantly reduced (p < 0.05, p < 0.01). ELISA analysis further revealed a substantial decrease in IDE and NEP activity (p < 0.01). A concomitant reduction in the expression of NT-3 and BDNF was also observed (p < 0.01). Compared to the Model group, mice treated with YHG or DNP exhibited significantly improved learning, memory, and spatial cognition. The protein expression of Aβ1-42, MMP-2, and MMP-9 was reduced (p < 0.05, p < 0.01), whereas the expression of IDE and NEP was elevated (p < 0.05). ELISA results confirmed the increased activity of IDE and NEP (p < 0.05). These assays also revealed a marked upregulation in the expression of NT-3 and BDNF (p < 0.01).The YHG compound reduces cerebral Aβ deposition via a bidirectional regulatory mechanism, upregulating IDE and NEP to promote clearance while downregulating MMP-2 and MMP-9 to mitigate associated damage. It also elevates the expression of the neurotrophic factors BDNF and NT-3, which enhances endogenous neuroprotection and ameliorates core Alzheimer's disease pathology. Consequently, this treatment markedly improves cognitive function in APP/PS1 mice.Copyright © 2026 Hao, Yang, Zhong, Zhang, He and Dong.
Objectives. Hemolysis significantly interferes with insulin measurements in clinical settings, leading to inaccurate results. Although the activity of insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE) is assumed to be the primary mechanism, the potential involvement of additional mechanisms remains unclear. This study aims to determine if IDE is the sole cause of this interference by using a selective IDE inhibitor, 6bK, and to explore whether this inhibition can completely prevent hemolysis-related inaccuracies in insulin assays. Methods. The effects of 6bK on insulin degradation were evaluated in hemolyzed and non-hemolyzed serum samples at room temperature, following the CLSI guidelines EP07-A2 and C56-A. Insulin levels were measured using chemiluminescent immunoassays. Additional assessments included the impact of 6bK on serum C-peptide, proinsulin, and standard biochemical parameters. The effects of 6bK were also evaluated at 4 °C and after 21 days of storage at room temperature prior to use. Results. Hemolysis caused a significant decrease in insulin concentrations, dependent on hemolysate levels and incubation time. The addition of 10 µM 6bK completely reversed hemolysis-induced insulin degradation in serum across a broad range of insulin baseline concentrations and degrees of hemolysis. Furthermore, 6bK did not affect insulin levels in non-hemolyzed samples or alter the quantification of C-peptide, proinsulin, or standard biochemical parameters. Conclusions. The decrease in serum insulin concentration due to hemolysis is exclusively attributed to the action of IDE. Selective inhibition of IDE by 6bK effectively eliminates hemolysis-induced interference in insulin measurements, providing a novel and reliable solution for accurate insulin quantification in hemolyzed clinical samples.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42327726 is a review article
Disruption of the circadian glucocorticoid rhythm occurs in human settings including chronic stress, sleep restriction, circadian misalignment, ageing and autonomous cortisol secretion; in mild autonomous cortisol secretion (MACS) and Cushing's syndrome, loss of the normal cortisol trough is clinically informative, and flatter diurnal cortisol profiles are associated with cardiometabolic disease. We previously showed that flattening of glucocorticoid rhythms in mice induces rapid and sustained hyperinsulinemia without hyper or hypo-glycaemia, implying that glucocorticoid rhythms may directly regulate the relationship between circulating glucose and systemic insulin output. Here we tested the hypothesis that beta cell glucocorticoid receptor (GR) signalling is required for the compensatory hyperinsulinaemia that maintains glucose homeostasis during glucocorticoid rhythm flattening, and that this reflects glucocorticoid-dependent reprogramming of beta cell stimulus-secretion coupling.Glucocorticoid rhythms were flattened in male C57BL/6J mice by subcutaneous corticosterone pellet implantation, which elevates trough levels and reduces peak amplitude while preserving the daily mean hormone concentration. Fasting plasma insulin and blood glucose were measured longitudinally and compared with placebo-implanted controls and high-fat diet-fed mice. Beta cell secretory function was assessed by static and dynamic glucose-stimulated insulin secretion in isolated islets, and beta cell excitability by GCaMP6f Ca²⁺ imaging in islets from Ins1-Cre;GCaMP6f mice. To test the requirement for beta cell GR in mature beta cells while avoiding developmental effects of constitutive GR deletion, we generated adult-inducible beta cell-specific GR knockout mice (MIP-CreERT;Nr3c1fl/fl; βGRKO). Combined beta cell and hepatic GR knockout mice (double-GRKO) were used to examine an additional extra-pancreatic contribution to systemic insulin availability. Glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity were assessed by intraperitoneal glucose and insulin tolerance tests. As a secondary question, a possible contribution of altered insulin clearance was examined from plasma C-peptide:insulin ratios and hepatic insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE) abundance.Glucocorticoid rhythm flattening produced sustained hyperinsulinaemia with maintained euglycaemia, distinct from the delayed hyperinsulinaemia and hyperglycaemia observed in high-fat diet-fed mice. Islets from glucocorticoid-flattened mice exhibited increased insulin secretion at subthreshold (3 mmol/l) glucose, enhanced secretory responses to stimulatory glucose and increased Ca²⁺ responses, indicating a lowered glucose threshold for beta cell activation that persisted ex vivo. Beta cell-specific deletion of GR markedly attenuated the hyperinsulinaemic response to glucocorticoid flattening (insulin AUC reduced ∼40% vs controls; p < 0.001) and produced progressive hyperglycaemia and impaired glucose tolerance, despite unchanged or improved insulin sensitivity. A reduced plasma C-peptide:insulin molar ratio (p = 0.007) and decreased hepatic IDE abundance (p = 0.032) indicated that reduced insulin clearance contributes additionally to the elevated circulating insulin, and combined beta cell and hepatic GR deletion lowered circulating insulin further than beta cell GR deletion alone. The absence of hypoglycaemia despite persistent hyperinsulinaemia is consistent with concurrent insulin resistance.Beta cell GR signalling is required for the compensatory hyperinsulinaemia that maintains glucose homeostasis when glucocorticoid rhythmicity is disrupted, acting through glucocorticoid-dependent lowering of the glucose threshold for insulin secretion; reduced insulin clearance contributes additionally to the rise in circulating insulin. These findings identify beta cell GR signalling as a key determinant of glucose homeostasis during disrupted glucocorticoid rhythmicity. Clinically, the work is most relevant not simply to nonspecific chronic stress, but to human states in which the cortisol rhythm is measurably flattened or the nocturnal trough is lost, including MACS, Cushing's syndrome, sleep restriction, shift work/circadian misalignment and ageing.What is already known about this subject?: Flattened or disrupted glucocorticoid rhythmicity in humans is observed most directly in MACS and Cushing's syndrome, where loss of the late-night cortisol nadir is clinically informative, and more broadly as flatter salivary cortisol slopes or elevated evening cortisol in ageing, sleep restriction and circadian misalignment; these patterns are associated with type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease and mortality.Flattening of glucocorticoid rhythms in mice induces rapid and sustained hyperinsulinaemia without hypoglycaemia, indicating that circulating insulin can be elevated independently of glucose.Hepatic insulin clearance, mediated in part by insulin-degrading enzyme and CEACAM1, is a major determinant of circulating insulin levels.What is the key question?: How does disruption of glucocorticoid rhythmicity increase circulating insulin while maintaining glycaemic control, and is beta cell glucocorticoid receptor signalling required for this adaptive response?What are the new findings?: Glucocorticoid rhythm flattening lowers the glucose threshold for beta cell activation through enhanced Ca²⁺ excitability, an effect that persists in isolated islets and indicates in vivo reprogramming of beta cell function. Beta cell-specific deletion of the glucocorticoid receptor blunts the hyperinsulinaemic response to glucocorticoid flattening and produces hyperglycaemia and impaired glucose tolerance despite unchanged or improved insulin sensitivity.Reduced insulin clearance, associated with decreased hepatic insulin-degrading enzyme abundance, contributes additionally to the elevated circulating insulin, but is not required for maintenance of glucose homeostasis.How might this impact on clinical practice in the foreseeable future?: Identifying beta cell glucocorticoid receptor signalling as a requirement for glucose homeostasis during disrupted glucocorticoid rhythmicity may inform strategies for understanding hyperinsulinaemia and steroid-associated metabolic dysfunction in human conditions marked by loss of the cortisol trough or flatter diurnal cortisol profiles, particularly MACS, Cushing's syndrome, shift work/circadian misalignment and ageing.
Insulin degrading enzyme (IDE) is a dimeric M16A zinc metalloprotease that degrades amyloidogenic peptides diverse in shape and sequence, including insulin and amyloid-β, to prevent toxic amyloid fibril formation. IDE has a hollow catalytic chamber formed by two ~55 kDa N- and C- domains (IDE-N and IDE-C, respectively), in which peptides bind, unfold, and are repositioned for proteolysis. IDE is known to transition between a closed state, poised for catalysis, and an open state, able to release cleavage products and bind a new substrate. Here, we present six cryo-EM structures of the IDE dimer at 3.0-5.1 Å resolution, obtained in the presence of a sub-saturating concentration of insulin. Combining cryo-EM heterogeneity analysis with all-atom molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, we identified the structural basis and key residues for IDE conformational dynamics that were not previously revealed by IDE static structures. Notably, R668 serves as a molecular latch mediating the open-close transition and facilitates key protein motions through charge-swapping interactions at the IDE-N/C interface. Our small-angle X-ray scattering analysis and enzymatic assays of an R668A mutant indicate a profound alteration of conformational dynamics and catalytic activity. By integrating coarse-grained MD simulations, our analysis reveals that IDE unfolds its substrates through the coordinated motion between IDE-N and IDE-C, as well as β-sheet formation between IDE and insulin. Additionally, our time-resolved cryo-EM analysis uncovers IDE allostery within the IDE dimer. Collectively, our findings demonstrate the strength of combining experimental and computational approaches to probe protein dynamics and pave the way for developing substrate-specific modulators of IDE activity.© 2025, Mancl et al.
Growing evidence suggests a mechanistic link between type 2 diabetes mellitus and Parkinson's disease (PD), with insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE) implicated in both insulin and amyloid-β metabolism, as well as α-synuclein degradation. However, the role of IDE in PD pathogenesis remains insufficiently defined. This study aimed to investigate the association of IDE gene polymorphisms and serum IDE levels with sporadic PD in a Chinese Han population.Fourteen single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within the IDE gene were genotyped in 463 patients with sporadic PD and 576 age- and sex-matched healthy controls (HCs). An independent cohort of 100 PD patients and 100 HCs was used to quantify serum IDE concentrations. Correlations between IDE levels and clinical features were assessed. Logistic regression was employed to identify independent factors associated with PD.Among the examined SNPs, rs11187007 showed a nominal allelic association with PD (P = 0.046), which did not survive the Bonferroni correction. Serum IDE concentrations were significantly higher in PD patients than in HCs (P = 0.015). Elevated IDE levels were negatively correlated with Mini-Mental State Examination scores (R = -0.230, P = 0.027) and positively associated with more severe symptoms. Logistic regression indicated that elevated serum IDE levels were associated with PD.Our findings highlight that elevated serum IDE correlates with PD, suggesting a role for IDE in neurodegeneration, warranting further mechanistic and longitudinal studies to evaluate its potential as a therapeutic target in PD.Copyright © 2026 Zheng, Guo, Zhou, Su, Cui, Zhang, Hu, Li, Shi, Xu, Mao and Wang.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42178909 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42142620 is a review article
Osteoporosis (OP) occurs with decreased bone mass and deterioration of the bone microarchitecture. This can lead to an increased incidence of bone fractures. In traditional Chinese medicine, the herbal pair of Eucommia ulmoides and Achyranthes bidentata is used to tonify the liver and kidney in order to strengthen bones. This study examined the network pharmacology and molecular docking of the pair to investigate the pharmacological mechanisms of the drug pair against OP. Active compounds were retrieved from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology database if they had an oral bioavailability of 30% or greater and a drug-likeness score of 0.18 or greater. OP-associated targets were identified from the GeneCards and Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man databases. The compound-target-disease network and protein-protein interaction network were built using Cytoscape and the Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes/Proteins, respectively. Key pathways were identified using the Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery functional enrichment analysis. To predict the potential binding interactions between the major compounds and the hub targets, molecular docking was used. In total, 49 active compounds (28 from E ulmoides and 21 from A bidentata) and 95 overlapping therapeutic targets were found. Quercetin, kaempferol, β-sitosterol, stigmasterol and wogonin were identified as key bioactive components within the network analysis. Fourteen hub targets, including interleukin-6, vascular endothelial growth factor A, tumor necrosis factor, tumor protein p53, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, were identified through protein-protein interaction analysis. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment revealed involvement in tumor necrosis factor, mitogen-activated protein kinase, hypoxia-inducible factor 1, Toll-like receptor, and NOD-like receptor signaling pathways. Molecular docking demonstrated favorable binding affinities between the key compounds and core proteins, suggesting potential interactions consistent with the network pharmacology predictions. The Eucommia-Achyranthes herbal pair may exert potential therapeutic effects on OP through multicomponent, multi-target, and multi-pathway interactions. Its main bioactive compounds may potentially interact with inflammatory and osteogenic signaling pathways via key targets such as interleukin-6, vascular endothelial growth factor A, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, tumor protein p53, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, which may be associated with bone metabolism and structural integrity. These findings provide a theoretical foundation for future experimental and clinical validation.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Lactation and mammary involution and remodeling are complex biological processes that require the coordinate expression of thousands of genes. Differential expression analyses comparing lactating and dry goats have revealed extensive changes in the expression of protein-coding and non-coding RNAs in the mammary gland. Here, we hypothesize that lactation and mammary involution/remodeling may also involve changes in the abundance of transcripts differing in exon composition and functional properties. To test this hypothesis, we analyzed the mammary transcriptomes of 5 lactating and 4 dry goats by using a hybrid approach based on the integration of data from short-read Illumina and long-read Nanopore sequencing. After data filtering, we detected 21,598 transcripts derived from 12,300 genes (≈1.7 transcripts per locus) in the goat mammary gland. Among them, we found 14,092 annotated isoforms, 6,291 novel isoforms, and 1,215 novel loci. Around 39.3% of expressed genes generated multiple transcript variants. Overall, the goat mammary transcriptome showed exon skipping as the most frequent splicing event, followed by alternative use of initial exons, intron retention, and variations in 3' and 5' splicing sites. We also observed that a limited number of isoforms accounted for a very substantial fraction of the total expression output of the lactating mammary gland, with the top 10 and top 50 genes representing approximately 66% and 82% of total expression, respectively. This transcriptomic specialization is driven primarily by genes encoding caseins CSN1S1, CSN2, and CSN3, and major whey proteins such as progestagen associated endometrial protein (PAEP), α-lactalbumin (LALBA), and lactophorin (GLYCAM1), which are essential milk nutrients. Finally, differential transcript usage (DTU) analysis comparing lactating and dry goats revealed 443 isoform switches affecting 355 unique genes and 563 transcripts. Besides, 266 and 297 transcripts were upregulated and downregulated in lactating goats, respectively, and 413 DTU, affecting 248 genes, were predicted to have functional consequences. Among these functional consequences, the most important ones were protein domain gain, non-reference domain isoform gain, nonsense-mediated insensitivity and coding transcripts. Several of the genes showing DTU have important roles in lactation, being of particular relevance those encoding epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase, mitochondrial (GPAM), hydroxysteroid 11-β dehydrogenase 1 (HSD11B1), insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS1), nuclear receptor subfamily 3 group C member 1 (NR3C1), and phosphoinositide-3-kinase regulatory subunit 1 (PIK3R1). Moreover, we also detected DTU for several genes integrated in the mitogen-activated protein kinase and Rho GTPase pathways. In summary, we provide a comprehensive catalog of RNA isoforms expressed in the goat mammary gland and demonstrate that mammary transcript splicing patterns differ substantially between lactating and dry goats.The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of the American Dairy Science Association®. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
The aim of this study was to investigate the potential reproductive toxicity of bisphenol S (BPS) and the related molecular mechanisms through a network toxicology approach. By utilizing various databases, including the Comparative Toxicogenomics Database (CTD), GeneCards, Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM), the Pharmacogenomics Knowledgebase (PharmGKB), and the Therapeutics Target Database (TTD), and limiting the species to Homo sapiens, we confirmed 45 potential targets related to both BPS exposure and reproductive injury. Additional analysis via STRING and Cytoscape pinpointed 4 key targets: AKT serine/threonine kinase 1 (AKT1), interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-1-beta (IL-1β), and tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα). Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses indicated that the principal targets of BPS-mediated reproductive damage are mainly involved in oxidative stress signaling and cell secretion pathways. Because PI3K/AKT regulates the secretion of IL-6, IL-1β, and TNFα, we focus on AKT1 in the molecular docking experiments. Unexpectedly, we found a strong interaction between BPS and AKT1. Furthermore, the results suggested that women may be more susceptible to BPS-mediated reproductive toxicity than men. This study provides a theoretical framework for understanding the molecular mechanisms through which BPS causes reproductive toxicity and lays the foundation for preventing and treating reproductive disorders related to BPS exposure. In addition, our network toxicology-based method can accelerate the discovery of pathways involved in the toxic effects of environmental chemicals that are currently unknown.© 2026 The Author(s). Pediatric Discovery published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Children's Hospital of Chongqing Medical University.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42500203 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42492394 is a review article
A large number of functional disorders and uncomfortable symptoms often remain following ischemic stroke (IS). Existing drug therapy is not ideal for the direct improvement of symptoms, which often leads to poor patient compliance with physical rehabilitation therapy. Buyang Huanwu Decoction (BYHWD) is a famous prescription that is effective in treating IS, especially during the sequela stage of IS. We analyzed the therapeutic mechanism of BYHWD through network pharmacology. This study aims to investigate the potential active ingredients, targets, and signaling pathways of BYHWD for the treatment of IS, utilizing network pharmacology and molecular docking technology. The active ingredients of 7 Chinese herbs in BYHWD were obtained from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology and HERB databases, and IS-related disease targets were searched in the DisGeNET, GeneCards, and OMIM databases. The protein-protein interaction network was constructed using the STRING database and analyzed by Cytoscape 3.10.2 software. Additionally, the target genes were uploaded to the Database for Annotation, Visualization, and Integrated Discovery website for Gene Ontology alongside Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analyses. With the assistance of AutoDockTools and PyMOL software (Schrödinger, Inc.), a validation of molecular docking results and a visualization of the results were performed. The results showed that there were 190 intersection targets between the active drug components and IS, corresponding to 61 active components, among which the top 5 target genes were tumor suppressor protein 53, Jun proto-oncogene, AKT serine/threonine kinase 1, mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, and estrogen receptor alpha. The PI3K-Akt signaling pathway is one of the top 10 pathways. The molecular docking results indicated that most of the top 5 targets had good affinities for the 8 core compounds. This computational analysis suggests that BYHWD may treat IS through multiple targets and pathways. It may play a neuroprotective role by regulating the inflammatory response, oxidative stress, apoptosis, autophagy, and vascular endothelial homeostasis. The identification of core effective components provides a theoretical foundation and candidate compounds for further investigation into new drugs for the treatment of sequelae after IS.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Organ abscission represents a critical adaptive strategy for plant survival, yet the post-translational mechanisms ensuring its irreversible remain poorly understood. Here, we unveil a signaling module, MITOGEN-ACTIVATED PROTEIN KINASE 3 (RhMPK3)-LATERAL ORGAN BOUNDARIES DOMAIN 41 (RhLOB41)-WRKY DNA-BINDING PROTEIN 9 (RhWRKY9), that gates ethylene-induced petal abscission in rose (Rosa hybrida) by orchestrating reactive oxygen species (ROS) homeostasis. We demonstrate that the transcription factor RhWRKY9 acts as a dual-function regulator, concurrently activating ROS production via activation of RESPIRATORY BURST OXIDASE HOMOLOGUE D (RhRBOHD) and suppressing scavenging via repression of CATALASE 2 (RhCAT2), thereby generating a ROS burst that locks abscission progression. Ethylene primes this process by destabilizing RhLOB41, a transcriptional repressor of RhWRKY9, through RhMPK3-mediated phosphorylation at Ser30. Phosphorylation creates a phosphodegron that targets RhLOB41 for autophagy-dependent degradation. Our findings redefine ROS as decisive executors of abscission and establish bidirectional ROS control as a paradigm for irreversible developmental transitions.
Merkel cell carcinoma is an aggressive neuroendocrine skin malignancy rarely reported in non-domestic species.A cutaneous nodule from an endangered Caucasian squirrel (Sciurus anomalus pallescens) was examined using histopathology, immunohistochemistry, imaging mass cytometry, spatial transcriptomics (10× Visium) and metagenomic sequencing.Histology revealed a high-grade neuroendocrine carcinoma with frequent mitoses (52 per 2.37 mm2) and necrosis. Tumour cells were positive for cytokeratin 20 (paranuclear dot pattern), synaptophysin and chromogranin A, with a high Ki-67 index (68%). Spatial analyses delineated a distinct tumour core and combined invasive front and stromal compartments, revealing upregulation of neuroendocrine (atonal basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor 1 and neurogenic differentiation factor 1) and proliferative (marker of proliferation Ki-67) programmes, and activation of phosphoinositide 3-kinase-AKT serine/threonine kinase 1-mechanistic target of rapamycin and mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways. No evidence of Merkel cell polyomavirus was found. The tumour microenvironment was immune-excluded, with programmed-death ligand 1 expression on ~22% of tumour cells and CD8+ T cells restricted to the stroma.This study provides a comprehensive methodological framework for high-resolution tumour profiling in conservation pathology and highlights the emergence of neoplasia in threatened wildlife.© 2026 Peyman Mohammadzadeh et al.
Sijunzi decoction (SJZD) is a traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) commonly used for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), but its mechanisms remain unclear. This study investigates its molecular basis using network pharmacology and molecular docking.Active compounds and targets of SJZD were identified via Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology (TCMSP) Database and Analysis Platform, and PDAC-related targets were retrieved from Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM) and GeneCards. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks, Gene Ontology (GO)/Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment, and tissue distribution analyses were conducted. Molecular docking evaluated binding affinities between compounds and targets. The anti-PDAC effects of SJZD were evaluated in vitro using human pancreatic cancer cell lines (CFPAC-1 and MiaPaCa-2) and in vivo using a patient-derived xenograft (PDX) mouse model.SJZD comprises 131 compounds and 260 targets, with key targets such as AKT serine/threonine kinase 1 (AKT1), BCL2 associated agonist of cell death (BAD), BCL2 apoptosis regulator (BCL2), and tumor protein p53 (TP53) identified through PPI analysis. Enrichment analyses highlighted the phosphatidylinositide 3-kinases (PI3K)/protein Kinase B (AKT)/mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase (mTOR) and apoptosis pathways as primary therapeutic mechanisms. SJZD exhibited cytotoxic effects against PDAC cells in vitro and suppressed tumor growth in vivo, with mechanistic analyses confirming its regulatory effects on the PI3K/AKT/mTOR and apoptosis pathways. Molecular docking revealed strong binding affinities, particularly for compounds targeting estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1) and estrogen receptor 2 (ESR2). These findings suggest that SJZD exerts anti-PDAC effects via multi-target modulation, primarily through inhibition of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling axis, induction of apoptosis and autophagy, and anti-inflammatory activity. The involvement of classic compounds supports the rationale of its traditional use, while experimental validation provides a mechanistic foundation for future clinical development.This study clarifies the active components, targets, and mechanisms of SJZD in treating PDAC, offering insights into the therapeutic potential of TCM.
Due to the increasing pressure of modern society, premature ovarian failure (POF) has become a widespread issue in women. POF not only impacts women's fertility but also heightens the risk of osteoporosis and cardiovascular diseases. Oviductus Ranae (OR) is a natural product that is used as medicine and food to exert "estrogen-like effects." Previous studies have reported that the compound improves follicle growth, which may be beneficial for POF. Thus, an experiment was designed to explore OR's positive effects on POF rats. POF rat models were established by intraperitoneal injection of cyclophosphamide (CTX), and OR was orally administered to the rats. Subsequently, serum estrogen and gonadotropin levels were measured by radioimmunoassay. Uterine status, endometrial epithelial thickness, and follicle numbers at different stages in ovaries were analyzed by H&E staining, and follicle atresia by TUNEL staining. Western blot was used to detect the expression levels of key proteins in the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/AKT serine/threonine kinase 1 (Akt) signaling pathway, as well as B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) and Bcl-2-associated X protein (Bax) in ovarian tissues. The results showed that OR administration to POF rats alleviated estrous cycle disorder, increased estrogen levels (p < 0.05), decreased gonadotropin levels (p < 0.05), mitigated uterine atrophy, increased endometrial epithelial thickness (p < 0.01), ovarian weight (p < 0.05), secondary and Graafian follicle numbers (p < 0.05), while reducing secondary and Graafian follicle atresia rate (p < 0.05). These beneficial effects may be attributed to OR-mediated upregulation of the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway and modulation of the Bcl-2/Bax apoptotic axis in ovarian tissue. In conclusion, OR can improve the follicular condition in ovaries and relieve symptoms in POF rats.© 2026 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Evidence has shown that constant light or constant darkness significantly impairs cognitive functions and affects the mood state. The present study investigated the effect of circadian rhythm disturbances (circadian rhythm disruptions, CRDs) on locomotor activity, rearing behavior, pain threshold, novel object recognition memory, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta (GSK-3β) expression levels in the hippocampus of both sexes of rats. CRD was done using a combination of constant light (48 h) and constant darkness (48 h) periods for 8 (short-term), 16 (midterm), or 24 (long-term) days. The results showed CRD in all protocols increased locomotor activity in males, whereas in females, only long-term CRD increased it. Long-term CRD increased rearing only in females, whereas in males, only midterm CRD decreased rearing. Short- and midterm CRD in males decreased pain threshold, whereas in females, only midterm CRD decreased pain threshold. Novel object recognition memory was impaired in both sexes following all protocols of CRD. All protocols of CRD in females downregulated BDNF, whereas in males, short-term CRD had no effect. GSK-3β was increased following long-term CRD in both sexes. Spearman correlation test showed that BDNF function may be associated with changes in some behavioral functions in both sexes; however, GSK-3β function may be associated with some behavioral changes only in females. In conclusion, we showed sex differences in the effect of CRD on locomotor activity, rearing behavior, and pain threshold. Also, GSK-3β may show a sex-dependent role in the modulation of behavioral changes induced by CRD.Copyright © 2026 Zeinab Dalil-Housh et al. Behavioural Neurology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Background/Objectives: Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains one of the leading causes of cancer-related morbidity and mortality worldwide. Despite advances in treatment, outcomes for advanced CRC remain unsatisfactory due to uncontrolled proliferation, metastasis, and recurrence. This study investigated the anti-cancer effects of KMU-11342, an indolin-2-one-based multi-protein kinase inhibitor with previously reported anti-inflammatory properties, in human colorectal cancer models. Methods: The anti-cancer effects of KMU-11342 were evaluated in colorectal cancer cells and further investigated in three-dimensional (3D) spheroid and patient-derived organoid models. Cell proliferation, migration, apoptosis, and cell cycle progression were assessed. Kinase activity profiling and molecular docking analyses were performed to identify potential targets and characterize the underlying signaling pathways. Results: KMU-11342 significantly inhibited the proliferation and migration of CRC cells. It reduced CRC cell density by 58.9% and 83.3% at 0.5 and 1 μM, respectively. These effects were accompanied by G2/M cell cycle arrest and apoptotic cell death. In 3D models, spheroid formation was markedly reduced and stemness-related characteristics were diminished. Patient-derived CRC organoids also showed decreased viability, exhibiting 38.6% and 77.4% reductions at 1 and 2 μM, respectively. These effects were observed in a dose-dependent manner in both two-dimensional (2D) and 3D colorectal cancer models. Kinase activity profiling and molecular docking analyses identified glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3β) and cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1) as potential mediators of the anti-cancer effects of KMU-11342 through the p53/nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) and FoxO1 signaling axes, respectively. Conclusions: KMU-11342 exhibits potent anti-tumor activity against CRC through suppressing proliferation, migration, and stemness in both 2D and 3D models, including patient-derived organoids. Its effects may be mediated, at least in part, through modulation of GSK3β and CDK1 via the p53/NF-κB and FoxO1 signaling pathways.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42513228 is a review article
The disruption of mitochondrial homeostasis is a trigger for insulin resistance. The loss of N-acetyltransferase 1 (Nat1) function, an insulin-sensitivity gene, contributes to mitochondrial dysfunction and insulin resistance. Carnosic acid (CA), a diterpene derived from rosemary, has demonstrated an anti-insulin-resistance effect. This study hypothesized that CA protects against TNF-α-induced insulin resistance in 3T3-L1 adipocytes by regulating mitochondrial dynamics, biogenesis, and function via Nat1. 3T3-L1 adipocytes were pretreated with CA for 12 h, followed by co-treatment with TNF-α for an additional indicated duration. Results showed that treatment of 3T3-L1 adipocytes with TNF-α decreases mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) and PGC-1α protein levels and alters mitochondrial fission/fusion dynamics. Pretreatment with CA improved these effects. In parallel, CA prevented the TNF-α-induced reduction in Nat1 protein and improved insulin signaling by suppressing the phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1) at serine307, while restoring the phosphorylation of IRS-1 at tyrosine628 and Akt. Moreover, transfection with Nat1 siRNA inhibited the protective effect of CA against TNF-α-induced reductions in MMP, PGC-1α, and insulin signaling. In conclusion, CA ameliorated TNF-α-induced insulin resistance by reducing mitochondrial dysregulation by Nat1.
Granulosa cells (GCs) are integral to the process of follicular development in poultry, with their differentiation and hormone synthesis being critical for follicle selection. While glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3β) is recognized as a significant regulator of energy metabolism, differentiation, and autophagy, its specific function within GCs remains unclear. Elucidating the role of GSK3β in GCs is essential for deciphering the mechanisms governing follicle selection. Our in vitro studies in GCs from prehierarchical follicles demonstrated that overexpression of GSK3β inhibited both differentiation and proliferation, while simultaneously promoting steroid hormone synthesis. Conversely, GSK3β knockdown yielded the opposite effects. Transcriptomic analyses, supplemented by further validation, revealed that overexpression of GSK3β initiated autophagy and lipid metabolism but impeded autophagic flux, as evidenced by increased LC3-II levels and elevated p62 accumulation. Furthermore, GSK3β overexpression resulted in enhanced intracellular lipid droplet accumulation. These effects, along with the observed rise in progesterone levels and reduction in FSHR levels, were attenuated by co-treatment with rapamycin (Rapa). Mechanistically, our findings suggest that the impairment of autophagic flux induced by GSK3β triggers lipid accumulation, leading to elevated mitochondrial damage and lipid peroxidation, which in turn negatively affects GC differentiation. In conclusion, GSK3β disrupts follicular GC function by initiating autophagy while blocking its flux. This disruption induces excessive lipid accumulation, ultimately inhibiting GC differentiation. This study provides novel insights into the role of GSK3β in poultry follicular development and offers a new theoretical framework for understanding the mechanisms of follicle selection.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Compensatory growth, an important adaptive response in fish, holds considerable potential for improving feeding efficiency in aquaculture. To identify an optimal fasting-refeeding strategy for juvenile Qihe gibel carp (Carassius gibelio var. Qihe) and to clarify the mechanisms underlying the compensatory growth, we divided two-month-old fish into four groups, namely S0 group (continuous feeding for 28 days), S2 group (4 cycles of 2-day fasting followed by 5-day refeeding), S4 group (fasting for 4 days followed by refeeding for 24 days), and S8 group (fasting for 8 days followed by refeeding for 20 days), then growth performance, muscle tissue morphology, biochemical responses, and muscle transcriptomic profiles under different feeding regimes were investigated. After a 28-day aquaculture experiment, fish in the S4 group exhibited significantly greater body length and weight than those in the S0, S2, and S8 groups, indicating over-compensatory growth. Histological analysis further showed that muscle growth in the S4 group was mainly associated with myofiber hyperplasia. Different feeding regimes also induced distinct changes in hepatic antioxidant and metabolic enzyme activities, as well as intestinal digestive enzyme activities. Transcriptome analysis revealed that the forkhead box O (FoxO) signaling pathway was significantly enriched during compensatory growth. Key genes, including serum/glucocorticoid regulated kinase 1 (sgk1) and insulin receptor substrate 1 (irs1), were predicted to play important roles in this process. Overall, these results indicate that fasting for 4 days followed by refeeding for 24 days (the S4 regime) is the optimal strategy for inducing compensatory growth in juvenile Qihe gibel carp. This study provides new insights into the morphological, physiological, and molecular basis of compensatory growth and offers a scientific foundation for developing efficient and sustainable feeding strategies for this species.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42453333 is a review article
Caveolin-2 (CAV2) is a lipid droplet (LD)-associated protein. Its role in oral leukoplakia (OLK), an oral potentially malignant disorder, and the underlying lipid metabolism mechanisms remain unclear.CAV2 conditional knockout (cKO; CAV2flox/flox; K14-Cre) and control (Flox) C57BL/6 mice were used to establish OLK models via 4-nitroquinoline-N-oxide (4NQO). A subset received a high-fat diet (HFD). Oil red O staining, RNA sequencing, multiplex immunofluorescence (Ki-67, E-cadherin, Perilipin-1, FABP5), ELISA (acetyl-CoA), serum biochemistry (ALT, TG), and targeted GC-MS/MS fatty acid profiling were performed.CAV2 knockout significantly suppressed OLK progression, evidenced by reduced lesion diameter/number and attenuated pathological severity. HFD failed to rescue OLK progression. RNA-seq confirmed dysregulation of lipid transport, lipolysis, and fatty acid metabolism/biosynthesis. Targeted metabolomics revealed markedly attenuated carcinogen-induced fatty acid accumulation in cKO mice, with C18:2n6c (linoleic acid, LA) identified as the sole metabolite showing significant genotype-dependent reduction under 4NQO challenge. cKO mice exhibited downregulated Perilipin-1 and Ki-67, and upregulated FABP5 and E-cadherin. CAV2 knockout also induced lesion acetyl-CoA accumulation and systemic lipid metabolism abnormalities.CAV2 knockout inhibits OLK formation and progression by disrupting lipid metabolism homeostasis, including restriction of LA bioavailability. Exogenous fatty acid supplementation failed to rescue OLK progression or restore metabolic homeostasis, highlighting CAV2 as a potential therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Here we report that membrane protein caveolin-2 (Cav-2) is regulated during activation of primary mouse peritoneal macrophages and RAW264.7 macrophage cell line by a bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and a cytokine, interferon gamma (IFN-γ). We also show that downregulation or loss of Cav-2 increases expression of inducible nitric oxide (NO) synthase (iNOS) and subsequent NO production in activated macrophages. Treatment with LPS and IFN-γ downregulated Cav-2 at the protein and mRNA level. Moreover, LPS- and IFN-γ-induced downregulation of Cav-2 inversely correlated with iNOS expression levels. Mechanistically, activation of NF-κB pathway was responsible for downregulation of Cav-2 by LPS and IFN-γ since pharmacological inhibition of NF-κB activation with pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC) prevented Cav-2 downregulation and iNOS activation. To test if LPS- and IFN-γ-induced downregulation of Cav-2 could possibly be involved in macrophage activation, we used a combination of siRNA knockdown and genetic deletion/knockout (KO) approaches. Remarkably, reduction of Cav-2 using siRNA approach resulted in enhanced STAT1 phosphorylation, iNOS expression, and increased NO production in LPS- and LPS plus IFN-γ-stimulated macrophages. Conversely, genetic deletion of Cav-2 robustly enhanced IFN-γ-stimulated iNOS expression and subsequent NO production. Overall, our data suggest that Cav-2 is not only regulated during macrophage activation, but it also may be an important physiological regulator of macrophage activation via preventing excessive STAT1 signaling and iNOS stimulation.Copyright © 2026 Sungchan Jang and Grzegorz Sowa. Mediators of Inflammation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Background/Objectives: Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) often exhibits limited clinical response to targeted therapies, such as Cetuximab. Identifying key drivers of tumor progression and elucidating the factors that modulate therapeutic sensitivity are essential for improving clinical outcomes. In this study, we aimed to investigate the role of CAV2 in HNSCC proliferation and its impact on Cetuximab sensitivity. Methods: Prognosis-associated genes in HNSCC were screened using the The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. The functional role of Caveolin-2 (CAV2) in cell proliferation and apoptosis was assessed via Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), colony formation, and flow cytometry assays. Mechanistic insights were obtained through co-immunoprecipitation, ubiquitination assays, and proteomic analysis. The impact of CAV2 on Cetuximab sensitivity was evaluated both in vitro and in a xenograft mouse model. Results: Clinical analysis of 43 pairs of HNSCC tumor and adjacent normal tissues revealed that elevated CAV2 expression was significantly associated with poor prognosis in HNSCC patients (95%CI: 1.197-1.7518, p = 1.33 × 10-13). In vitro, knockdown of CAV2 suppressed cell proliferation and significantly increased apoptosis rates (from 5.1% to 10.8%, p = 0.004). Mechanistically, CAV2 interacted with the PACT protein and disrupted the PACT-PKR axis via the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Notably, CAV2 deficiency synergized with Cetuximab treatment, reducing the the half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) value by 6-fold compared with control cells and suppressing tumor growth by 48.41% in xenograft models compared to Cetuximab monotherapy (p < 0.0001). Conclusions: In conclusion, these findings establish CAV2 as a critical regulator of HNSCC progression and Cetuximab sensitivity via post-translational modulation of the PACT-PKR axis. Targeting the CAV2/PACT/PKR axis may therefore represent a promising therapeutic strategy to potentiate the efficacy of EGFR-targeted therapy in patients with HNSCC.
Sepsis-induced acute lung injury is a significant clinical challenge with high morbidity and mortality rates. Currently, no effective therapeutic interventions are available. The aim of this study was to elucidate the role and underlying mechanisms of Caveolin-2 in sepsis-induced acute lung injury. To this end, a Caveolin-2 knockdown model was utilized both in vivo and in vitro, facilitating a comprehensive evaluation of several parameters, including lung tissue injury, inflammatory responses, oxidative stress markers, changes in apoptotic protein expression, and indicators of macrophage polarization. Additionally, the study investigated alterations in proteins associated with the Hippo signaling pathway and assessed the effects of Hippo pathway inhibitors on apoptosis and polarization. Our results indicate that the knockdown of Caveolin-2 facilitates the polarization of macrophages towards the protective M2 macrophage polarization and mitigates macrophage apoptosis. This process is associated with a reduction in oxidative stress and inflammatory responses, culminating in the activation of the Hippo signaling pathway. Conversely, the overexpression of Caveolin-2 intensifies inflammation and oxidative damage, while promoting apoptosis and M1 macrophage polarization. Our findings provide novel insights into the role of Caveolin-2 and Hippo signal pathway in sepsis-induced acute lung injury and establish a foundation for future research and the development of potential therapeutic strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cancer cells and the nervous system engage in a dynamic interplay, significantly influencing initiation and progression in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). Our findings highlight that cancer cells drive an increase in caveolin-2 (Cav2) expression within trigeminal ganglia and associated neural fibers in the tumor milieu, fostering a reciprocal attractant relationship between tumor cells and nerves. Notably, the knockout of Cav2, either globally or specifically in sensory neurons or glial cells, markedly attenuates the growth of orthotopically implanted tongue tumors. Moreover, Cav2-expressing nerves are implicated in shifting cancer cell metabolism towards mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, a process involved in maintenance of cancer stem cells (CSCs). Our results also demonstrate that Cav2-expressing nerves confer stemness properties to cancer cells. Disruption of Cav2 expression, both globally and in specific neural cell types, impedes tumorigenesis and progression in a 4-NQO-induced HNSCC mouse model. This interplay observed between cancer cells, neurons, and glial cells suggests a potential mechanism through which tumor-associated nerves might influence cancer stemness via metabolic reprogramming. This highlights a possible direction for anticancer therapy that warrants further investigation.© 2025. The Author(s).
Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), a serious disease, is characterized by various degrees of pulmonary vascular remodeling, inflammation, and increased vascular resistance, leading to fatalities in patients with severe conditions. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of PAH remain incompletely understood.RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), 4D label-free proteomics, and phosphoproteomics were employed to detect the levels of mRNA, proteins, and phosphorylation modification in the lung tissues of PAH patients, compared to those in the control group. Parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) was subsequently performed to verify the differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) identified by proteomic profiling.After data filtering (|log2FoldChange| > 1 and p < 0.05), the PAH group exhibited 967 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), 764 DEPs, and 411 phosphorylated DEPs compared with those of the control group. By integrating transcriptomic and proteomic analyses, 54 proteins were identified with consistent changes at both levels. We analyzed several proteins using PRM, including known candidates such as enolase 1 (ENO1) and chloride intracellular channel 1 (CLIC1), as well as novel proteins such as caveolin-2 (CAV2) and eukaryotic translation initiation factor (EIF2A). Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses of DEPs showed significant enrichment of biological processes associated with inflammatory response, oxidative stress, and tissue remodeling. Phosphorylated DEPs showed significant enrichment in key pathways, including autophagy, apoptosis, and hypoxia inducible factor (HIF) signaling, all of which were closely associated with PAH.Dysregulated pathways such as autophagy, apoptosis, and HIF-1 signaling, along with altered genes or proteins, contribute to PAH by inducing pulmonary vascular remodeling and chronic vasoconstriction. These findings may facilitate the discovery of novel therapeutic targets and effective treatment strategies for PAH.Copyright © 2025 Liu, Zhou, Wang, Xu, Gao, Zu and Wang.
Ciprofloxacin (CFX) is a broad-spectrum antibiotic belonging to the fluoroquinolone class, widely used to treat bacterial infections by inhibiting bacterial DNA replication. Ferroptosis, a form of regulated cell death, is characterized by lipid peroxidation on cellular and organelle membranes. Our previous studies demonstrated that CFX inhibits erastin-induced ferroptosis by enhancing glutathione peroxidase 4 protein stability. In contrast, we report here a distinct role of CFX in potentiating RSL3-induced ferroptosis in various cancer cells. Mechanistically, CFX inhibits topoisomerase 2β, and when combined with RSL3, induces significant mitochondrial DNA stress. This mitochondrial DNA stress triggers a signaling cascade involving the stimulator of interferon genes cGAMP interactor 1 and caveolin-2, ultimately disrupting intracellular zinc homeostasis. The resulting zinc accumulation is transported into mitochondria via solute carrier family 25 member 25, leading to elevated mitochondrial reactive oxygen species production and amplification of ferroptosis. These findings reveal a dual role of CFX in ferroptosis regulation, dependent on the specific stimuli and downstream signaling pathways activated. This dual functionality highlights the potential therapeutic implications of CFX in modulating ferroptosis in disease contexts.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Tobacco-based products, including e-cigarettes, have gained popularity as perceived safer alternatives to traditional smoking despite their addictive nature. However, emerging evidence shows that heating e-liquids generates aerosols containing harmful substances, including nicotine, aldehydes, metals, and fine/ultrafine particles. This aerosol composition varies significantly based on device settings, e-liquid ingredients, and heating conditions. E-cigarettes use has been associated with declining lung function, epithelial cell damage, inflammation, and oxidative stress. Previous studies have highlighted and identified the ubiquitin-proteasome system within the lipid raft proteome of murine macrophages, suggesting its role in modulating the NF-κB(p105)-MEK-ERK pathway and inflammatory responses. Based on these findings, our study aimed to investigate the effects of e-cigarette vapors on the compartmentalization of proteasomes. We exposed human type II lung alveolar epithelial cells (A549) to filtered air or tobacco-flavored e-cigarette vapor condensate (TF-ECVC; with or without nicotine) for 24 h. Our findings revealed a notable increase in the transcription and translation of lipid rafts-associated proteins, including Caveolin-1, Caveolin-2, Flotillin-1, and Flotillin-2. We performed subcellular fractionation to elucidate the localization of proteasome/immunoproteasome subunits along with lipid rafts-associated proteins in the membrane and cytosolic fractions. Furthermore, we also observed the localization of proteasome and immunoproteasome subunits within the lipid raft fractions of TF-ECVC-exposed alveolar epithelial cells. Notably, membrane rafts-associated proteins and proteasome subunits were significantly accumulated within exosomes released from the challenged cells. These findings underscore the role of membrane rafts in proteasome compartmentalization and highlight novel molecular mechanisms regulated by ECVC. Furthermore, this study provides critical insights into the potential health risks associated with e-cigarette usage, emphasizing the need for further investigation into its cellular effects.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Arf-like GTPases (Arls) regulate membrane trafficking and cytoskeletal organization. Genetic studies predicted a role for Arl15 in type-2 diabetes, insulin resistance, adiposity, and rheumatoid arthritis. Cell biological studies implicated Arl15 in regulating various cellular processes, including magnesium homeostasis and TGFβ signaling. However, the role of Arl15 in vesicular transport is poorly defined. We evaluated the function of Arl15 using techniques to quantify cargo trafficking to mechanobiology. Fluorescence microscopy of stably expressing Arl15-GFP HeLa cells showed its localization primarily to the Golgi and cell surface. The depletion of Arl15 causes the mislocalization of selective Golgi cargo, such as caveolin-2 and STX6, in the cells. Consistently, expression of GTPase-independent dominant negative mutants of Arl15 (Arl15V80A,A86L,E122K and Arl15C22Y,C23Y) results in mislocalization of caveolin-2 and STX6 from the Golgi. However, the localization of Arl15 to the Golgi is dependent on its palmitoylation and Arf1-dependent Golgi integrity. At the cellular level, Arl15 depleted cells display enhanced cell spreading and adhesion strength. Traction force microscopy experiments revealed that Arl15 depleted cells exert higher tractions and generate multiple focal adhesion points during the initial phase of cell adhesion compared to control cells. Collectively, these studies implicate a functional role for Arl15 in regulating cargo transport from the Golgi to regulate cell surface processes.© 2025 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
In normal prostate cells, receptors for oxytocin (OT), a peptide involved in regulating prostate growth are sequestered within membrane microdomains called caveolae. During cancer progression, polymerase-transcript-release factor (PTRF) is downregulated, caveolae structures are lost and receptors move onto the cell membrane. This study investigated whether proteins responsible for caveolae formation were affected by the OT peptide, also, how OT treatment affected oxytocin receptor (OTR) movement within living cells.Normal human prostate epithelial cells (PrEC) expressing caveolin and PTRF and androgen-independent (PC3) cancer cells expressing caveolin but not PTRF were used. OTR, caveolin and PTRF expression was determined in human prostate tissue.PTRF expression decreased in tissue alongside an increase in malignancy. Caveolin-1 expression was downregulated by OT treatment. Caveolin-2 was decreased by OT in PrEC cells but increased in PC3 cells. PTRF was decreased by OT in PrEC. TIRF microscopy showed OTR translocated from caveolae to caveolae in normal cells, whereas OTR moved without restraint in malignant cells, possibly stimulating signaling pathways.This study provides evidence for the ability of OT to regulate caveolin and PTRF expression. This study elucidates possible mechanisms by which cell receptors and caveolae proteins interact to enhance cell proliferation.
Human parvovirus B19 infects erythroid progenitor cells and inhibits erythropoiesis. The small 11-kDa (s11-kDa) protein of the virus interacts with the host adaptor Grb2 (growth factor receptor-bound protein 2) and suppresses downstream kinase phosphorylation to promote viral genome replication; however, the underlying mechanism remains unclear. Here, we show that s11-kDa competitively disrupts the Grb2-SOS (Son of Sevenless) interaction by binding to the N-terminal SH3 domain of Grb2. Structural modeling indicated that the proline-rich region of the s11-kDa protein engage Grb2 molecules, potentially generating a high-affinity interaction that blocks SOS binding. These findings revealed a sophisticated viral replication strategy mediated by a viral accessory protein.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Austria, part of Springer Nature.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is the most prevalent chronic liver disease globally and can progress to metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis, a more severe and fibrotic form. Although the recent FDA approval of Resmetirom and Semaglutide, represents a major therapeutic milestone, its efficacy is limited to a subset of patients. Thus, identifying additional molecular targets is essential. This study aimed to investigate the role of lymphocyte antigen 6 complex locus D (LY6D) in hepatic lipid accumulation and MASLD pathogenesis.LY6D expression was assessed in liver tissue samples from patients with MASLD and validated in leptin or leptin receptor knockout mice (ob/ob and db/db) and high-fat diet-fed mouse models. Transcriptomic profiling was performed using RNA sequencing to identify LY6D-associated metabolic pathways. Functional analyses were conducted using LY6D-overexpressing mice to evaluate hepatic lipid content, gene expression, and protein signaling. Protein-protein interactions were assessed via co-immunoprecipitation, and downstream effects on AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) phosphorylation and sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1(SREBP1) activation were evaluated by Western blotting.LY6D expression was significantly elevated in liver samples from patients with MASLD and in mouse models of hepatic steatosis. Transcriptomic analysis revealed enrichment of fatty acid synthesis pathways in LY6D-high livers. In LY6D-overexpressing mice, de novo lipogenesis was increased, with upregulation of lipogenic genes including Srebf1, Fasn, Acaca, and Scd1. Mechanistically, LY6D associated with growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 (GRB2) and was accompanied by reduced AMPK phosphorylation at Thr172. Modulation of AMPK activity altered LY6D-dependent SREBP1c abundance and nuclear accumulation, supporting an LY6D-associated GRB2-AMPK-SREBP1c regulatory node that promotes lipogenic transcription.LY6D is an upstream regulator of hepatic de novo lipogenesis in MASLD. Our data support a model in which LY6D promotes lipogenic signaling via an LY6D-associated GRB2-AMPK-SREBP1c pathway, and suggest that LY6D may represent a therapeutic entry point to complement current MASLD/MASH treatments. LY6D was found to bind GRB2, leading to suppression of AMPK phosphorylation at Thr172. This inhibition promoted transcription and nuclear translocation of SREBP1, thereby enhancing transcription of key lipogenic genes (Acaca, Fasn, and Scd1) and consequently increasing hepatic de novo lipogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Sorafenib resistance remains a major therapeutic challenge in advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). This study aimed to investigate the role of growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 (GRB2) in sorafenib resistance of HCC cells under hypoxic conditions and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms involving the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway.Bioinformatics analysis was performed using TCGA-LIHC, GEO datasets, and multiple databases to evaluate GRB2 expression, its correlation with hypoxia signatures, and prognostic significance in HCC. Western blot was used to detect GRB2 expression in HCC cell lines and normal hepatocytes. Huh7 cells were cultured under normoxic (21% O2) or hypoxic (1% O2) conditions, treated with sorafenib alone or combined with PI3K inhibitor LY294002. GRB2 knockdown was performed using lentiviral shRNA. Cell proliferation, migration, and apoptosis were evaluated by CCK-8 assay, wound healing assay, and flow cytometry, respectively.Bioinformatics analysis revealed that GRB2 was significantly upregulated in HCC tissues compared to normal tissues, positively correlated with hypoxia-related genes (HIF-1α, VEGFA) and hypoxia scores, and associated with poor patient prognosis. Western blot confirmed that GRB2 was highly expressed in HCC cell lines compared to normal hepatocytes. Under hypoxic conditions, HIF-1α expression increased in a time-dependent manner, validating the hypoxia model. Hypoxia attenuated sorafenib-induced inhibition of cell proliferation and migration while reducing apoptosis, as evidenced by increased IC50 values (from 4.934 μM to 8.676 μM). Sorafenib treatment under hypoxia upregulated GRB2, PI3K, and p-AKT protein levels. PI3K inhibition by LY294002 or GRB2 knockdown restored sorafenib sensitivity, reduced PI3K and p-AKT expression, and promoted apoptosis in hypoxic HCC cells.Our findings suggest that hypoxia reduces the sensitivity of HCC cells to sorafenib, and that GRB2 contributes to this process through activation of the PI3K/AKT pathway. Targeting GRB2 may represent a potential strategy to enhance sorafenib efficacy in HCC treatment under hypoxic conditions.© 2026 He et al.
Directed cell migration is essential for animal development and homeostasis. Cells often migrate toward or away from sources of secreted proteins that impart spatial information. How cells interpret extracellular signals to navigate to precise destinations is a fundamental question. Receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) signaling plays critical roles in cell migration, and aberrant RTK pathway activity is implicated in many cancers. Yet how RTKs control cell migration in living animals remains unclear, in part due to the essential, pleiotropic roles of key proteins. To elucidate how RTK signaling directs cell migration in vivo, we systematically dissected the spatial and temporal requirements for key signal transduction and cytoskeletal regulatory proteins in migrating C. elegans muscle progenitors. Cell-type-specific depletion of endogenous proteins revealed that fibroblast growth factor (FGF) receptor (FGFR), growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 (GRB2), Son-of-Sevenless (SOS), and Ras homologs control cell migration independently of their canonical extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), and phospholipase C-gamma (PLCγ) effectors. In migrating cells, SOS-1 polarity provided an intracellular readout of the direction of an FGF source, and mislocalizing SOS activity disrupted migration. By contrast, activated Ras was genetically permissive for anterior migration, and an intragenic revertant of Ras/let-60(G13E) revealed that signaling required for cell migration can be uncoupled from Ras-ERK-dependent developmental processes. Regulators of branched actin assembly controlled leading-edge dynamics but were not essential for accurate migration. Our findings provide a novel mechanism for RTK-directed cell migration and highlight the importance of cell-type-specific approaches to elucidate signal transduction mechanisms in their native contexts. This work also introduces a versatile genetic toolkit for dissecting signaling dynamics fundamental to development and disease states.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) has a nearly 50% global mortality. Physalin A (PA) shows anti-cancer activities, but its role in metastasis remains unclear in OSCC cells. This study intended to determine whether PA inhibits OSCC cell migration and invasion and to clarify the underlying mechanisms.HSC-3 OSCC cells were analyzed using wound-healing, migration, and invasion assays. Atomic force microscopy (AFM) was used to assess morphological changes. Western blotting examined E-cadherin (E-cad), matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), and urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA). A RasV12/scrib-/- Drosophila model evaluated in vivo tumor suppression.PA significantly reduced wound closure, migration, and invasion in HSC-3 cells. AFM showed decreased cancer-related morphological alterations. PA increased E-cadherin and reduced MMPs and uPA. PA also inhibited growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 (Grb2)/Ras and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (Akt)/nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kB) signaling. In vivo, PA suppressed tumor formation and metastasis in RasV12/scrib-/- genotype Drosophila.PA attenuates HSC-3 OSCC cell migration and invasion by regulating Grb2/Ras, PI3K/Akt/NF-kB, and MMP/uPA pathways, suggesting its potential as an anti-metastatic agent for OSCC.Copyright © 2026, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 (Grb2) is an essential adaptor protein that mediates activation of the RAS/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling cascade by linking receptor tyrosine kinase to the guanine nucleotide exchange factor SOS (Son of Sevenless). Grb2 exists in a dynamic monomer-dimer equilibrium, with only the monomer competent for signaling. Dysregulation of this pathway is common in cancer, making Grb2 a compelling therapeutic target. Coumarin, a plant-derived compound with reported anticarcinogenic activity, was previously shown to bind the SH2 domain of dimeric Grb2. Here, we investigated the interaction between coumarin and the monomeric form of Grb2 under two physiologically relevant pH conditions (7 and 8), corresponding to healthy and cancer cell environments, respectively. Fluorescence quenching, dynamic light scattering, and STD-NMR analyses revealed that pH modulates Grb2's conformation, increasing its hydrodynamic diameter and exposing alternative ligand-binding sites. The interaction mapping identified Trp60 (buried in the dimeric form) as a key contact residue and at pH 8.0, coumarin binds Grb2 with a 10-fold higher stability. These findings demonstrate, for the first time, that coumarin interacts with monomeric Grb2 and that pH-sensitive structural dynamics modulate ligand binding. Our results highlight the importance of mimicking disease-relevant physicochemical conditions in ligand discovery efforts and support the development of pH-sensitive inhibitors targeting aberrant MAPK signaling in cancer.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Growth factor receptor–bound protein 2 (Grb2) is a modular adaptor that links activated receptor tyrosine kinases to downstream signaling pathways through its SH3–SH2–SH3 architecture. Previous studies showed that perturbations in the SH2 domain can influence ligand binding at the C-terminal SH3 domain, suggesting directional allosteric communication within the protein. Here, we tested whether the flanking SH3 domains, in turn, modulate SH2-mediated ligand recognition. Using a parallel mutational scan of the isolated SH2 domain and full-length Grb2, combined with stopped-flow kinetics and double-mutant-cycle analysis, we found that SH2 binding energetics remain essentially unchanged in the presence of the SH3 domains. Only three of twenty-one variants displayed measurable coupling, and none exceeded the threshold typically associated with significant allosteric effects. Pre-binding of the C-SH3 domain to a Gab2-derived peptide likewise produced no detectable influence on SH2–ligand binding. These results reveal a marked asymmetry in interdomain communication in Grb2 and show that the SH2 domain functions as a robust, largely autonomous module within the full-length protein.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) represents a leading cause of global cancer-related mortality. Despite substantial therapeutic advancements, persistent challenges of local recurrence and distant metastasis continue to compromise patient survival outcomes. Tumorigenesis and progression are orchestrated through complex signal transduction networks. It is imperative to delineate critical signaling pathways in CRC for identifying novel therapeutic targets. Transcription factor forkhead box 1 (FOXK1) and adaptor protein growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 (GRB2) regulate tumor initiation and progression across diverse malignancies. However, their functional interplay and precise mechanistic contributions in CRC remain elusive. In this study, FOXK1 overexpression promoted cellular proliferation and metastatic dissemination in CRC models. And it is correlated significantly with adverse clinical prognosis. Mechanistically, FOXK1 transcriptionally activates GRB2 by directly binding to its promoter region, thereby driving the malignant phenotype of CRC. These findings elucidate the FOXK1/GRB2 signaling axis. And they provide unprecedented insights into transcriptional regulatory networks governing CRC pathogenesis. As multifunctional signaling hubs, both FOXK1 and GRB2 represent promising candidates for molecularly targeted CRC therapies.© 2025. The Author(s).
Depression is increasingly recognized as a comorbidity of dry eye disease (DED), yet its underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study investigates the therapeutic effects of fluoxetine on depression-associated corneal injury and explores the molecular pathways involved. Chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) mice received fluoxetine treatment. Behavioral tests, corneal wound healing, tear secretion, and 4D-DIA proteomics were performed. GRB2 expression was validated via immunohistochemistry, qRT-PCR, and western blot. Human corneal epithelial cells (hCECs) under hyperosmotic stress (450 mOsm) were transfected with GRB2 siRNA to assess oxidative stress, inflammation, and migration. Fluoxetine treatment significantly reduced depressive behaviors, accelerated corneal epithelial wound healing, and restored tear secretion. Proteomic analysis of corneal tissues revealed dysregulation of cytoskeletal and metabolic pathways in depressed mice, which fluoxetine partially reversed. GRB2 emerged as a critical protein, showing elevated expression in depressed mice and hyperosmolar-stressed hCECs. Silencing GRB2 in hCECs attenuated hyperosmolarity-induced oxidative stress, inflammation, and migration inhibition. Immunohistochemical and behavioral analyses confirmed GRB2's role in corneal epithelial thinning and depression-related DED pathology. These findings highlight GRB2 as a potential therapeutic target and underscore fluoxetine's dual efficacy in mitigating depressive symptoms and ocular surface damage. This study provides novel insights into the molecular interplay between depression and DED, advocating for integrated therapeutic strategies addressing both psychiatric and ophthalmic dimensions.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
CD28 signaling pathway plays critical roles in the T cell activation. The golden pompano (Trachinotus ovatus, Tro) is a commercially important marine fish that widely cultured in southern China. Frequently pathogenic disease outbreaks greatly hinder the industry of golden pompano. Understanding the T cell activation signaling pathway of golden pompano contributes to prevent pathogenic diseases using immunological strategies. In the present study, three molecules of CD28 signaling pathway (TroCD28, growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 (TroGrb2) and SH2 domain-containing leukocyte phosphoprotein of 76 kDa (TroSLP-76)) were identified from golden pompano. The cDNA of the three genes respectively encoded 248, 217 and 375 amino acids. TroCD28, TroGrb2 and TroSLP-76 contained several conserved functional domains, similar to their mammalian counterparts. qPCR analysis revealed that these three genes were ubiquitously expressed in all selected tissues and peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBLs), with high expressions in immune-related tissues (spleen, head kidney, gill). Further, expressions of these three genes in head kidney were significantly induced at different time points post lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or polyriboinosinic polyribocytidylic acid (polyI:C) stimulation and Vibrio alginolyticus infection. The coimmunoprecipitation (Co-IP) assay verified the TroCD28-TroGrb2 interaction. These results provide basis for understanding the process of T cell activation in golden pompano.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Loss of proteostasis leads to the accumulation of aberrant proteins, including aggregated proteins and amyloid fibrils, contributing to various diseases. Protein quality control systems are essential for maintaining proteostasis. Although intracellular mechanisms are well characterized, pathways responsible for the degradation of aberrant proteins outside the cell remain poorly understood. We previously identified the chaperone/carrier- and receptor-mediated extracellular protein degradation pathway, in which the extracellular chaperone clusterin binds misfolded proteins and the resulting complex is delivered to lysosomes via endocytosis. However, it remains unclear whether other factors are involved in this pathway. To identify novel regulators, plasma factors binding serum amyloid A1 were investigated. Glycosylphosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase D1 (GPLD1) was found to directly bind serum amyloid A1 and promote its lysosomal degradation. This activity was independent of GPLD1's cleavage activity for GPI-anchored proteins. Furthermore, GPLD1 mediates lysosomal degradation of misfolded proteins, with cell surface heparan sulfate acting as its receptor. Our data demonstrate that GPLD1 is a novel scavenger carrier with substrate specificity distinct from clusterin, responsible for degrading extracellular aberrant proteins.© 2026 Tsuchiya et al.
Physical activity (PA) has numerous positive health effects, including improvements in cognitive function. PA stimulates the release of glycosylphosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase D1 (GPLD1) from the liver, resulting in hippocampal neurogenesis in mice and improved cognition. Interestingly, PA also increases plasma GPLD1 in healthy humans, suggesting a role in cognition, but regulatory factors modulating its concentrations remain unclear. We investigated whether different PA modes, diseases (obesity, hypertension, and diabetes), and age affect plasma GPLD1 levels using three different study cohorts. Plasma GPLD1 levels were analyzed in three studies cohorts comprised of 1) young adults (25 yrs) performing moderate exercise, 2) elderly (68.9 yrs) and 3) of prediabetic subjects (59.4 yrs) performing different habitual PA. We found that prediabetic subjects had higher plasma GPLD1 levels than elderly and young adults. Elderly with diabetes showed significantly higher GPLD1 levels than non-diabetic subjects. In elderly, plasma GPLD1 correlated negatively with average steps, but there was no association after taking their diabetes status into account. GPLD1 exhibited a positive correlation with age in elderly with normal glucose tolerance, and with BMI in subjects with impaired glucose tolerance. Average step numbers negatively correlated with BMI and diastolic BP in the elderly, and BMI in prediabetic subjects. BMI was positively correlated with both diastolic and systolic BP in elderly subjects, and with diastolic BP in young adults. In conclusion age and diabetes affect plasma GPLD1 levels in humans. Age is one of the determining factors, as moderate exercise in young adults did not change plasma GPLD1 levels. Habitual physical activity did not alter plasma GPLD1 levels in individuals with prediabetes or diabetes. The release of GPLD1 into the blood and its mechanistic influences on cognitive functions would need further investigation in humans.Copyright: © 2026 Raza et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
A recent study by Bieri et al. shows that exercise elevates hepatic glycosylphosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase D1 (GPLD1), which cleaves endothelial tissue-nonspecific alkaline phosphatase (TNAP) to rejuvenate cerebrovascular signaling, enhance cognition in aging, and attenuate Alzheimer's-related pathology. This liver-to-brain enzymatic axis positions hepatokines as potent mediators of exercise-induced neuroprotection, which redefines systemic metabolism as a driver of brain resilience.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study investigated the therapeutic potential of exercise training and the associated role of Glycosylphosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase D1 (GPLD1) in an experimental Alzheimer’s disease (AD) model. Using a D-galactose/AlCl3 induced rodent model, we evaluated behavioral impairments, AD pathological markers, and the expression of key signaling pathways linked to neurodegeneration and neuroprotection, alongside and neurotrophic factors. Male rats were divided into Control, AD, Exercise, and AD + Exercise groups. The AD model exhibited significant deficits in locomotor activity, exploratory behavior, and spatial learning/memory, alongside elevated hippocampal Aβ1–42, tau protein, AChE activity. This was accompanied by overactivation of pathways implicated in neuroinflammation and pathology (NF-κB, mTOR, GSK-3β), and downregulation of pathways crucial for neuronal survival and plasticity (Wnt3a/β-catenin, PI3K/Akt), in addition to reduced GPLD1 and BDNF. Exercise intervention significantly ameliorated these behavioral deficits, increased hippocampal BDNF, GPLD1, and restored activity in pro-survival pathways (Wnt3a/β-catenin, PI3K/Akt) while reducing AD pathology markers. Notably, the AD + Exercise group demonstrated substantial recovery in most parameters compared to the AD group. Furthermore, plasma and liver GPLD1 levels were markedly upregulated by exercise. These findings collectively suggest that exercise training is associated with robust neuroprotection, correlating with systemic GPLD1 upregulation, and highlights the GPLD1 axis for future therapeutic investigation in AD.
Elite training induces profound physiological adaptations, yet whether these changes manifest as stable circulating proteomes remains unclear. This study characterized serum proteomic profiles in male and female Olympic-level athletes to identify biomarkers associated with long-term endurance and strength training.Cross-sectional study in Olympic-level athletes and sedentary controls.Resting serum samples were collected from male and female marathon runners and weightlifters (with 5-15 years of training), alongside age- and sex-matched sedentary individuals. Proteomic profiling was performed using tandem mass spectrometry. Data were processed with MaxQuant and analyzed using Perseus. Selected proteins were confirmed using antibody-based assays.Among 301 identified protein groups, 36 showed significant differences between groups. Apolipoprotein A-IV (APOA4) was elevated in athletes, particularly marathoners, suggesting cardiovascular adaptation to endurance training. Fibronectin 1 (FN1) was reduced in weightlifters, consistent with vascular remodeling associated with resistance training. Marathoners exhibited higher levels of von Willebrand factor (VWF) and glycosylphosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase D1 (GPLD1), and lower levels of galectin-3-binding protein (LGAS3BP) and leucine-rich alpha-2-glycoprotein 1 (LRG1), indicating immunomodulatory effects of oxidative training. Weightlifters showed reduced levels of GPLD1 and extracellular matrix protein 1 (ECM1), reflecting distinct remodeling pathways. FN1, APOA4, VWF, LGALS3BP and ECM1 levels were further confirmed.Endurance and resistance training elicit modality-specific serum proteomic adaptations that reflect vascular, endothelial, and hemostatic remodeling. These molecular signatures, observed in both sexes, highlight stable changes induced by chronic training and may inform cardiovascular prevention strategies and evidence-based approaches in sports science to optimize training and performance.Copyright © 2026 Sports Medicine Australia. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Despite the established role of GPLD1 (glycosylphosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase D1) in age-related impairments, its involvement in cardiovascular diseases remains unclear.We analyzed GPLD1 transcript and protein levels in heart tissues from patients with heart failure (HF) and murine HF models. Genetic approaches, including cardiac-specific depletion, overexpression, or mutation of GPLD1, alongside intramyocardial injection of adeno-associated virus 9-mediated GPLD1 overexpression or its short hairpin RNA transduction, were used to assess the functional role of GPLD1 in transverse aortic constriction-induced HF mouse models. Proteomic profiling identified candidate binding targets, which were validated using methods including proximity ligation assay and coimmunoprecipitation. uPAR (urokinase-type plasminogen activator receptor) overexpression or short hairpin RNA targeting uPAR was performed to interrogate mechanistic pathways. Subcellular localization of GPLD1 was investigated through membrane lipid analysis and subcellular fractionation of plasma membrane and mitochondrial compartments. Cardiomyocytes were transfected with pRS426GFP-2×PH (PLC [phospholipase C] δ) to monitor phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate levels. Cytosolic and mitochondrial calcium levels, mitochondrial permeability transition pore opening, and oxygen consumption rate were measured to evaluate cellular homeostasis and bioenergetics.GPLD1 levels were elevated in patients with HF and murine models. Cardiac-specific GPLD1 depletion exacerbated cardiac dysfunction and hypertrophy, while its overexpression ameliorated these effects, depending on enzymatic activity. uPAR was identified as a potential binding target for GPLD1, and viral-mediated uPAR transduction completely abolished the protective effects of GPLD1 following transverse aortic constriction surgery. Mechanistically, GPLD1 was anchored to the plasma membrane and outer mitochondrial membrane via phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate to cleave the glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor of uPAR, thereby maintaining calcium homeostasis and mitochondrial function, and ultimately ameliorating cardiac dysfunction. Conversely, excess uPAR led to a decrease in phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate levels, preventing GPLD1 from localizing to these membranes and causing it to disperse in the cytoplasm.Our studies identify GPLD1 as an endogenous protective factor against HF and suggest that it may be a promising therapeutic target for cardiac dysfunction and HF.
Although evidence for exercise-induced changes in neurocognitive biomarkers is emerging, research examining acute responses to different exercise regimes across sex and age is lacking. This study investigated serum concentrations of three neurocognitive biomarkers (i.e., Klotho, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and glycosylphosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase D1 (GPLD1)) after acute strength and aerobic exercise, along with skeletal muscle gene expression.In a within-subjects crossover design, blood samples of 19 young women, 20 young men, and 14 elderly men were taken before, immediately, 3 h and 24 h after one bout of strength training (ST) and high-intensity interval training (HIIT). Muscle biopsies were taken from a subgroup (n = 22) before, 3 h and 24 h after ST and HIIT for gene expression analyses. Time changes and baseline levels, including the influence of sex and age, were analyzed using a multilevel model and Welch's analysis of variance, respectively. Biomarker levels were adjusted for exercise-induced plasma volume changes.Serum concentration of all biomarkers increased after ST and HIIT but were not affected by sex or age. While serum Klotho and BDNF levels peaked immediately after exercise in all groups, serum GPLD1 levels were highest at 3 h (young groups only). Age was a determining factor for baseline measures; young men had higher and lower resting serum Klotho and BDNF concentration, respectively, than elderly men. Muscle gene expression of Klotho increased after both exercise modes, and BDNF and GPLD1 expression was reduced within 24 h.Circulating levels of biomarkers linked to brain health can acutely be increased by one bout of ST or HIIT. This increase might be related to altered gene expression of these proteins in skeletal muscle. Ultimately, this could have beneficial implications for the management of mental and neurocognitive impairments.© 2025. The Author(s).
Cancer stem cells (CSCs) play a central role in cancer progression, therapy resistance, and disease recurrence. With the use of a quadruple-mutant mouse intestinal cancer organoid model and single-cell RNA-sequencing analysis, we have now identified glycosylphosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase D1 (GPLD1), an enzyme that catalyzes the cleavage of glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchors of membrane proteins, as a marker of slowly cycling CSCs. Ablation of Gpld1+ cells in combination with 5-fluorouracil treatment greatly attenuated cell viability in and regrowth of the intestinal cancer organoids. In addition, we identified serine protease 8 (PRSS8) as a key substrate of GPLD1 in human colorectal cancer cells. GPLD1 cleaves the GPI anchor of PRSS8 and thereby mediates release of the protease from the plasma membrane, resulting in the activation of Wnt signalling and promotion of the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in the cancer cells. Pharmacological inhibition of GPLD1 suppressed Wnt signalling activity and EMT in association with upregulation of the amount of functional PRSS8 at the plasma membrane. Our findings suggest that targeting of GPLD1 in colorectal cancer might contribute to a new therapeutic strategy that is based on suppression of Wnt signalling and EMT-related cancer progression driven by CSCs.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Japanese Biochemical Society. All rights reserved.
The PTEN gene negatively regulates the oncogenic PI3K-AKT pathway by encoding a lipid and protein phosphatase that dephosphorylates lipid phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-triphosphate (PIP3) resulting in the inhibition of PI3K and downstream inhibition of AKT. Overexpression of PTEN in mice leads to a longer lifespan compared to control littermates, although the mechanism is unknown. Here, we provide evidence that young adult PTENOE mice exhibit many characteristics shared by other slow-aging mouse models, including those with mutations that affect GH/IGF1 pathways, calorie-restricted mice, and mice treated with anti-aging drugs. PTENOE white adipose tissue (WAT) has increased UCP1, a protein linked to increased thermogenesis. WAT of PTENOE mice also shows a change in polarization of fat-associated macrophages, with elevated levels of arginase 1 (Arg1, characteristic of M2 macrophages) and decreased production of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS, characteristic of M1 macrophages). Muscle and hippocampus showed increased expression of the myokine FNDC5, and higher levels of its cleavage product irisin in plasma, which has been linked to increased conversion of WAT to more thermogenic beige/brown adipose tissue. PTENOE mice also have an increase, in plasma and liver, of GPLD1, which is known to improve cognition in mice. Hippocampus of the PTENOE mice has elevation of both BDNF and DCX, indices of brain resilience and neurogenesis. These changes in fat, macrophages, liver, muscle, hippocampus, and plasma may be considered "aging rate indicators" in that they seem to be consistently changed across many of the long-lived mouse models and may help to extend lifespan by delaying many forms of late-life illness. Our new findings show that PTENOE mice can be added to the group of long-lived mice that share this multi-tissue suite of biochemical characteristics.© 2023. The Author(s).
Deletion of pregnancy-associated plasma protein-A (PAPP-A), a protease that cleaves some but not all IGF1 binding proteins, postpones late-life diseases and extends lifespan in mice, but the mechanism of this effect is unknown. Here we show that PAPP-A knockout (PKO) mice display a set of changes, in multiple tissues, that are characteristic of other varieties of slow-aging mice with alterations in GH production or GH responsiveness, including Ames dwarf, Snell dwarf, and GHRKO mice. PKO mice have elevated UCP1 in brown and white adipose tissues (WAT), and a change in fat-associated macrophage subsets that leads to diminished production of inflammatory cytokines. PKO mice also show increased levels of muscle FNDC5 and its cleavage product, the myokine irisin, thought to cause changes in fat cell differentiation. PKO mice have elevated production of hepatic GPLD1 and plasma GPLD1, consistent with their elevation of hippocampal BDNF and DCX, used as indices of neurogenesis. In contrast, disruption of PAPP-A limited to muscle ("muPKO" mice) produces an unexpectedly complex set of changes, in most cases opposite in direction from those seen in PKO mice. These include declines in WAT UCP1, increases in inflammatory macrophages and cytokines in WAT, and a decline in muscle FNDC5 and plasma irisin. muPKO mice do, however, resemble global PKO mice in their elevation of hippocampal BDNF and DCX. The data for the PKO mice support the idea that these changes in fat, macrophages, liver, muscle, plasma, and brain are consistent and biologically significant features of the slow-aging phenotype in mice. The results on the muPKO mice provide a foundation for further investigation of the complex, local, and global circuits by which PAPP-A modulates signals ordinarily controlled by GH and/or IGF1.© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to American Aging Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510573 is a review article
Forkhead box O4 (FOXO4) is highly expressed in the placenta, but its molecular role in trophoblast biology remains unclear. Transcriptomic analysis of human placenta revealed FOXO4 abundance, prompting investigation of its function in trophoblast differentiation and placental development. We found that FOXO4 expression is induced during mouse trophoblast stem (TS) cell differentiation. Gain- and loss-of-function studies demonstrated that FOXO4 promotes differentiation of TS cells towards the trophoblast giant cell (TGC) lineage. Chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) identified FOXO4 binding to promoters of genes involved in cell cycle regulation, epigenetic modification, metabolism, and ferroptosis. Among these, MITD1 and PCBP2 emerged as key downstream effectors mediating ferroptosis resistance. FOXO4 knockdown enhanced lipid peroxidation and ferroptotic cell death, whereas FOXO4 overexpression upregulated MITD1 and PCBP2 and restored cell viability. Similar protective effects were observed in human JEG-3 trophoblast cells, indicating conservation of FOXO4's function across species. In vivo, FOXO4 expression was elevated in invasive trophoblast cells of E14.5 mouse placenta, whereas FOXO4, MITD1, PCBP2, and GPX4 were reduced in human intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) placentae, consistent with enhanced ferroptosis. Collectively, these findings define FOXO4 as a transcriptional regulator that protects trophoblast cells from ferroptosis via MITD1 and PCBP2, thereby supporting placental development and function.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is a highly aggressive and treatment-resistant subtype of breast cancer, characterized by high rates of metastasis and mortality. This study aimed to identify and evaluate the therapeutic potential of blestriarene C (BC), a novel diphenanthrene compound, in the treatment of TNBC. The study also sought to explore the underlying mechanisms and signaling pathways involved in BC's antitumor effects.A multiomics analysis was conducted to identify key genes and pathways involved in TNBC treatment. We performed experiments related to cell viability, ferroptosis, and mitophagy to explore the effects of BC in the treatment of TNBC, utilizing the TNBC cell lines BT-549 and 4T1 cells. The impact of sestrin 2 (SESN2) knockout on BC's effects was also studied. We also conducted in vivo experiments using the patient-derived xenograft (PDX) model in zebrafish to assess the antitumor effects of BC.The results of RNA sequencing and proteomics showed that ferroptosis and mitophagy may be the main mechanisms of BC acting on TNBC cells. BC could inhibit cell proliferation by modulating the phosphoinositide 3-kinase/protein kinase B/forkhead box O4 and SESN2/mechanistic target of rapamycin signaling pathways, and inducing ferroptosis and mitophagy. SESN2 and microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta (MAP1LC3B), as hub genes, participated in regulating the therapeutic effect of BC on TNBC. TNBC tumors in zebrafish treated with BC were smaller and lighter, indicating that BC had antitumor effect.BC emerges as a promising therapeutic agent for TNBC by targeting SESN2 and MAP1LC3B, modulating associated signaling pathways, and inducing ferroptosis and mitophagy. These findings provide the basis for further investigation of BC's potential as a targeted therapy for TNBC.Copyright © 2026 The Chinese Medical Association, produced by Wolters Kluwer, Inc. under the CC-BY-NC-ND license.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a prevalent chronic liver condition worldwide. Although forkhead box O4 (FOXO4) is implicated in liver diseases, its role in NAFLD remains unclear.FOXO4 knockout mice were generated using CRISPR/Cas9 and fed a normal or high-fat diet (NFD/HFD). Human hepatic stellate cell line (LX-2) cells were transfected in vitro with a FOXO4 siRNA plasmid.Twelve weeks of HFD feeding downregulated FOXO4 expression and reduced its colocalization with hepatocyte nuclear factor 4α (HNF4α). HFD-fed mice exhibited increased liver-to-body weight ratios; marked lipid/glycogen accumulation; and elevated serum alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, total cholesterol, triglyceride, and nonesterified fatty acid levels. These pathological manifestations were further exacerbated upon genetic ablation of FOXO4. Specifically, FOXO4 knockout aggravated HFD-induced upregulation of α-smooth muscle actin protein; increased the expression of profibrotic genes (including collagen type I alpha 1 chain, transforming growth factor-β1, and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases 1) and inflammatory mediators (such as interleukin-1β, IL-6, and tumour necrosis factor-α); and increased hepatocyte apoptosis. Mechanistically, FOXO4 suppressed secreted phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1) expression in LX-2 cells via direct binding to the SPP1 promoter and transcriptional suppression of its activity.FOXO4 downregulation exacerbates HFD-induced NAFLD progression via SPP1-dependent steatosis, inflammation, and fibrosis, thereby suggesting its potential as a therapeutic target.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The insulin-regulated kinase, mammalian target of rapamycin complex 2 (mTORC2), coordinates regulation of sodium-glucose cotransport and gluconeogenesis in the kidney proximal tubule. Dietary potassium can bypass mTORC2 to regulate sodium-glucose cotransport and gluconeogenesis in mTORC2 knockout mice. The transcription factor forkhead box O4 may have an unexpected role in mediating mTORC2 effects on renal tubule glucose homeostasis.The kidney is uniquely responsible for reabsorption of filtered glucose and gluconeogenesis. Insulin stimulates glucose transport and suppresses gluconeogenesis in the proximal tubule; however, the signaling mechanisms and coordinated regulation of these processes are poorly understood. The kinase complex mammalian target of rapamycin complex 2 (mTORC2) is critical for regulation of growth, metabolism, solute transport, and electrolyte homeostasis in response to a wide array of inputs. In this study, we examined its role in the regulation of renal glucose reabsorption and gluconeogenesis.Rictor, an essential component of mTORC2, was knocked out using the Pax8-LC1 system to generate inducible tubule–specific Rictor knockout (KO) mice. A second Rictor KO model was generated using Cre-loxP technology and a proximal tubule–specific promoter. Animals were fasted and refed on normal- or high-potassium (K+) diets. Metabolic parameters, including glucose homeostasis and kidney function, were assessed. Kidneys and livers were harvested for molecular analysis of gluconeogenic enzymes, glucose transporters, and mTORC2-regulated signaling targets.On a normal-K+ diet, mTORC2 KO mice had marked glycosuria despite normal blood glucose. Immunofluorescence microscopy and immunostaining of plasma membrane protein fractions showed lower proximal tubule apical membrane sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 and sodium-glucose cotransporter 1 in the fed state of KO mice. Metabolic testing showed elevated fasting insulin, impaired pyruvate tolerance, and elevated hemoglobin A1c. In addition, renal gluconeogenic enzymes were increased, consistent with abnormal renal gluconeogenesis in KO mice. These effects correlated with reduced downstream phosphorylation of Akt and the transcription factor forkhead box O4, identifying a novel role of forkhead box O4 in the kidney tubules. Interestingly, high dietary K+ rapidly lowered glycosuria and gluconeogenesis, despite persistent reduction in mTORC2 substrate phosphorylation.Renal tubule mTORC2 is critical for coordinated regulation of sodium-glucose cotransporter membrane localization and renal gluconeogenesis. In the absence of mTORC2, dietary K+ promotes glucose reabsorption and suppresses gluconeogenesis independent of insulin signaling.This article contains a podcast at https://dts.podtrac.com/redirect.mp3/www.asn-online.org/media/podcast/JASN/2025_05_29_ASN0000000703.mp3
Neonatal hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE) has a high incidence and mortality rate, representing a significant patient burden. Therefore, treatment strategies that work synergistically with hypothermic therapies are urgently required. Punicalagin (PUN) is a natural and safe polyphenol with anti-inflammatory functions whose excellent water solubility and safety make it an advantageous perinatal medication. However, its underlying mechanisms of action in HIE remain unclear.This study investigated the role and associated mechanism of action PUN in HIE.We used the Rice Vannucci method to construct an in vivo HIE model in rats, from which we extracted primary cortical neurons to construct an in vitro oxygen and glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R) model. The mechanisms of action of PUN were investigated using transcriptome sequencing, laser speckle contrast imaging, 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride-staining, the Morris water maze test, western blotting, qPCR, immunofluorescence, and histochemistry.HIE rats demonstrated excessive autophagy and inflammation. PUN reduced brain tissue damage and neuronal apoptosis, and improved cerebral blood flow perfusion, learning, and cognitive abilities. PUN attenuated autophagic overexpression following HIE and inhibited the AKT-FOXO4 (forkhead box O4) signaling pathway. The neuroprotective effects of PUN were inhibited by treatment with the AKT signaling pathway and autophagy inhibitor 3-MA. Furthermore, brain tissue damage was significant and PUN was ineffective in siFOXO4 rats.PUN significantly reduces cerebral infarction, neuroinflammation, and excessive autophagy caused by HIE, thereby exerting short- and long-term neuroprotective effects. Mechanistically, the neuroprotective effect of PUN is mediated by activation of the AKT-FOXO4 pathway. Therefore, PUN may be a potential therapy for HIE.Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
Forkhead box O4 (FOXO4), a human transcription factor, recognizes target DNA through its forkhead domain (FHD) while maintaining comparable binding affinity to non-target DNA. The conserved region 3 (CR3), a transactivation domain, modulates DNA binding kinetics to FHD and contributes to target DNA selection, but the underlying mechanism of this selection remains elusive. Using paramagnetic relaxation enhancement analysis, we observed a minor state of CR3 close to FHD in the presence of non-target DNA, a state absent when FHD interacts with target DNA. This minor state suggests that CR3 effectively masks the non-target DNA-binding interface on FHD. The interaction weakens significantly under high salt concentration, implying that CR3 or high salt concentrations can modulate electrostatic interactions with non-target DNA. Our 15N relaxation measurements revealed FHD's flexibility with non-target DNA and increased rigidity with target DNA binding. Our findings offer insights into the role of FOXO4 as a transcription initiator.© 2024. The Author(s).
Adipose tissue plays an important role in pig production efficiency. Studies have shown that postnatal development has a vital impact on adipose tissue; however, the mechanisms behind pig adipose tissue early-life programming remain unknown. In this study, we analyzed the transcriptomes of the subcutaneous adipose tissue (SAT) of 1-day and 21-day old Laiwu piglets. The results showed that the SAT of Laiwu piglets significantly increased from 1-day to 21-day, and transcriptome analysis showed that there were 2352 and 2596 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between 1-day and 21-day SAT in male and female piglets, respectively. Expression of genes in glycolysis, gluconeogenesis, and glycogen metabolism such as pyruvate kinase M1/2 (PKM), phosphoenolpyruvate carboxy kinase 1 (PCK1) and amylo-alpha-1, 6-glucosidase, 4-alpha-glucanotransferase (AGL) were significantly different between 1-day and 21-day SAT. Genes in lipid uptake, synthesis and lipolysis such as lipase E (LIPE), acetyl-CoA carboxylase alpha (ACACA), Stearoyl-CoA desaturase (SCD), and 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA synthase 1 (HMGCS1) were also differentially expressed. Functional analysis showed enrichment of DEGs in transcriptional regulation, protein metabolism and cellular signal transduction. The protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks of these DEGs were analyzed and potential hub genes in these pathways were identified, such as transcriptional factors forkhead box O4 (FOXO4), CCAAT enhancer binding protein beta (CEBPB) and CCAAT enhancer binding protein delta (CEBPD), signal kinases BUB1 mitotic checkpoint serine/threonine kinase (BUB1) and cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1), and proteostasis-related factors ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 C (UBE2C) and cathepsin D (CTSD). Moreover, we further analyzed the transcriptomes of SAT between genders and the results showed that there were 54 and 72 DEGs in 1-day and 21-day old SAT, respectively. Genes such as KDM5D and KDM6C showed gender-specific expression in 1-day and 21-day SAT. These results showed the significant changes in SAT between 1-day and 21-day in male and female Laiwu pigs, which would provide information to comprehensively understand the programming of adipose tissue early development and to regulate adipose tissue function.
Resistance to chemotherapy containing cisplatin (DDP) is a main challenge in the treatment of triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). Forkhead box O4 (FOXO4) is frequently downregulated in DDP-resistant cells. However, it is unclear whether FOXO4 down-regulation is related to DDP resistance. Here, we investigated the relationship between FOXO4 and DDP resistance in TNBC.We established the DDP-resistant cell lines MDA-MB-231/DDP and BT-549/DDP through in vitro selection. CCK-8 and colony formation assays analyzed cell growth. The resistance index was calculated. Cell autophagy was evaluated. Western blotting and qRT-PCR measured protein and gene expression. The binding between FOXO4 and TGF-β1 was determined by the dual-luciferase reporter assay.FOXO4 expression was significantly lower in MDA-MB-231/DDP and BT-549/DDP cells. FOXO4 overexpression increased the sensitivity of TNBC cells to DDP. The PI3K class Ⅲ and Beclin-1 levels and LC3-II/LC3-I ratio elevated significantly in DDP-resistant cells. Moreover, the autophagic flux was enhanced in DDP-resistant cells. 3-MA enhanced the sensitivity of TNBC cells to DDP by inhibiting autophagy. Overexpression of FOXO4, treatment with 3-MA, and their combination significantly reduced the drug resistance index. FOXO4 directly targeted TGF-β1. Additionally, TGF-β1 knockdown inhibited autophagy and restored the sensitivity of DDP-resistant cells to DDP. Mechanistically, FOXO4 affected TNBC resistance to DDP by regulating autophagy and TGF-β1.FOXO4 overexpression, in combination with autophagy inhibitors, can significantly improve the sensitivity of TNBC-resistant cells to DDP. These findings reveal the role and mechanism of FOXO4 in DDP sensitivity and may provide evidence for the development of TNBC therapies.Copyright © 2024 Southern Society for Clinical Investigation. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Follicular fluid (FF) is rich in extracellular vesicles (EVs). EVs carries a variety of miRNA involved in regulating follicular development, the function of cells in follicles, primordial follicular formation, follicular recruitment and selection, follicular atresia, oocyte communication, granulosa cells (GCs) function and luteinization and other biological processes of follicular development. Previous studies in our laboratory have shown that bovine follicular fluid (bFF) high density-small extracellular vesicles (HD-sEVs)-miRNA was enriched in autophagy-related pathways. However, the mechanism of bFF EVs carrying miRNA regulating GCs autophagy is not clear. Thus, this study carried out a series of studies on the previous HD-sEVs sequencing data and miR-128-3p contained in bFF HD-sEVs. A total of 38 differentially expressed genes were detected by RNA-Seq after overexpression of miR-128-3p in bovine GCs (bGCs). Through cell transfection, Western blot (WB) and Immunofluorescence (IF), it was proved that overexpression of miR-128-3p could promote the expression of LC3 (microtubule-associated protein I light chain 3), inhibit p62, promote the number of autophagosome, promote the formation of autophagy lysosome and autophagy flow, and activate bGCs autophagy. MiR-128-3p inhibitor significantly inhibited the expression of LC3 and monodansylcadaverine (MDC) in bGCs, and promoted the expression of autophagy substrate p62, indicating that HD-sEVs-miR-128-3p could activate bGCs autophagy. In addition, through double luciferase assay, bioinformatics analysis, WB and RT-qPCR, it was concluded that bFF HD-sEVs-miR-128-3p could target TFEB (transcription factor EB) and FoxO4 (Forkhead box O4) and activate GCs autophagy.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The Cavβ4 subunit of voltage-gated Cav1.2 channels regulates gene expression in neurons and cardiac cells. It increases the expression of interferon-β-related genes in H9c2 cardiomyocytes derived from rat ventricular tissue, but the possibility that it also regulates the expression of microRNAs (miRs) remains unexplored. Furthermore, its role in cardiac hypertrophy is unknown. Although the mechanisms underlying cardiac hypertrophy have been studied extensively, the antihypertrophic response is poorly understood. We conducted quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, western blot, and immunofluorescence experiments with H9c2 cardiomyocytes to examine the effects of Cavβ4 overexpression on isoproterenol-induced hypertrophy; the protein abundance of the transcription factors nuclear receptor 4A2 (NR4A2) and forkhead box O1 (FOXO1), which counter agonist-induced hypertrophic growth; and the expression of miR-183-5p, which targets NR4A2 and FOXO1 mRNAs. We found that the Cavβ4 subunit prevented the development of H9c2 cardiomyocyte hypertrophy, down-regulating miR-183-5p expression and increasing the protein abundance of NR4A2 and FOXO1. We also observed a transient decrease in Cavβ4 mRNA expression in rat ventricles at 6 h after isoproterenol injection. These results suggest that the Cavβ4 subunit plays a channel-independent role in the antihypertrophic response in cardiac muscle cells.© 2026 The Author(s). Physiological Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Physiological Society and the American Physiological Society.
Persistent injury and impaired regeneration of the alveolar epithelium are key contributors to the pathogenesis of pulmonary fibrosis. In idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), type 2 alveolar epithelial (AT2) cells fail to fully differentiate into type 1 alveolar epithelial (AT1) cells, remaining instead in a transitional state. Histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors are promising therapeutic agents for pulmonary fibrosis. Therefore, this study investigated whether MPT0E028, a pan-HDAC inhibitor, ameliorated bleomycin (BLM)-induced pulmonary fibrosis in a therapeutic model of mice by promoting AT2-to-AT1 cell differentiation.The effects of MPT0E028 on pulmonary fibrosis were assessed by evaluating the expression of fibrogenic proteins and cell markers of AT1 (T1α and aquaporin 5 [AQP5]), AT2 (surfactant protein C [SPC]) and alveolar epithelial transitional cells (Keratin 8 [KRT8]) in a therapeutic model of BLM-induced pulmonary fibrosis in mice. The role of the ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (ATM)/AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK)/forkhead box O1 (FoxO1) signaling pathway in MPT0E028-induced T1α expression was examined in murine AT2 cells (MLE-12 cells).Administration of MPT0E028 significantly reduced fibrosis scores; suppressed the expression of connective tissue growth factor, collagen I, fibronectin, and α-smooth muscle actin; and improved lung function in the therapeutic model of BLM-induced pulmonary fibrosis in mice. MPT0E028 enhanced the expression of T1α and AQP5 but reduced the expression of SPC and KRT8 in lung tissues from BLM-treated mice. In MLE-12 cells and primary human AT2 cells, MPT0E028 upregulated T1α and AQP5 expression in a time-dependent manner, with this accompanied by a decrease in SPC expression. AS1842856, an FoxO1 inhibitor, and FoxO1 siRNA transfection inhibited MPT0E028-stimulated T1α expression, whereas transfection with FoxO3 siRNA had no effect. FoxO1 siRNA transfection also inhibited MPT0E028-stimulated T1α-luciferase activity. MPT0E028 induced FoxO1 serine phosphorylation, increased FoxO1 recruitment to the T1α promoter, and enhanced FoxO1-luciferase activity. Compound C, an AMPK inhibitor, and AMPK siRNA transfection suppressed MPT0E028-stimulated T1α expression, and compound C also inhibited MPT0E028-promoted FoxO1 recruitment to the T1α promoter. MPT0E028 induced AMPK phosphorylation in a time-dependent manner and increased ATM acetylation and phosphorylation in MLE-12 cells. ATM siRNA transfection suppressed MPT0E028-induced T1α expression, AMPK and FoxO1 serine phosphorylation, FoxO1 recruitment to the T1α promoter, and FoxO1-luciferase activity. MPT0E028 induced FoxO1 phosphorylation in AT2 cells in the therapeutic model of BLM-induced pulmonary fibrosis in mice.MPT0E028 is the first pan-HDAC inhibitor shown to activate ATM acetylation-mediated AMPK/FoxO1 signaling to induce AT2-to-AT1 differentiation in a therapeutic model of BLM-induced pulmonary fibrosis in mice. Administration of MPT0E028 after BLM challenge effectively ameliorated pulmonary fibrosis by suppressing fibrogenic protein expression and promoting AT2-to-AT1 cell differentiation. These results suggest that MPT0E028 holds potential as a therapeutic agent for IPF treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
In recent years, the association between abnormal cholesterol metabolism and Parkinson's disease (PD) has attracted considerable attention, but the specific mechanism remains controversial. First, we used Mendelian Randomization (MR) analysis to clarify the relationship between cholesterol and PD. Subsequently, scRNA-seq and RNA-seq were used to identify the crucial role of astrocyte 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMGCR) in this process. Moreover, we verified its downstream target genes by RNA-seq, in vivo and in vitro experiments. The upstream transcriptional regulator of HMGCR was identified by database and validated by luciferase reporter and siRNA knockdown assays. The results of the MR analysis showed that low cholesterol levels may increase the risk of PD. This phenomenon was also observed in the PD mouse model. The scRNA-seq and RNA-seq results showed that astrocyte HMGCR played an important role in PD. Increasing astrocytic HMGCR alleviated cholesterol level and PD-related phenotypes. Mechanistically, astrocytic HMGCR-mediated cholesterol alleviated PD phenotypes by inhibiting Nuclear Factor Kappa-B (NF-κB) neuroinflammation. Furthermore, knocking down Forkhead Box O1 (FOXO1) restored HMGCR expression and cholesterol levels, subsequently inhibiting NF-κB activation. Our research indicated that the cholesterol synthesis disorder in astrocytes driven by HMGCR can exacerbate the pathogenesis of PD by promoting neuroinflammation. Targeting HMGCR in astrocytes will be a potential therapeutic approach.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Identifying pathological markers to differentiate between high- and low-grade pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PanIN) remains an unmet clinical need. Recent studies suggest that the tumor microenvironment undergoes dynamic changes during PanIN progression. To establish objective pathological markers, this study investigated histological, immunohistochemical, and molecular alterations in PanIN-associated stroma across different grades.Fibroblastic cluster (FC) was defined and characterized using immunohistochemistry (IHC) for SMA, CD31, and CD34, and their frequency was assessed according to PanIN grade in 202 PanIN lesions and 58 normal ducts. To identify molecular differences among PanIN types, multiple gene expression analysis (MGEA) was performed for six normal ducts, and for three PanIN1, three PanIN2, and six PanIN3 lesions. IHC and fluorescent dual IHC for CD31 and CD36 were performed to quantify CD36-positive stromal vessels. RNA scope for PPAR and IHC for thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1) and forkhead box O1 (FOXO-1) were performed to explore the molecular basis of CD36 downregulation.FCs were identified in 86.6% of PanIN3 stroma and were significantly more frequent than in lower-grade PanINs. MGEA revealed downregulation of CD36 in PanIN2-3 compared with PanIN1, and CD36-positive vessels were significantly fewer in higher-grade PanIN stroma. PPAR signals were present in low-grade but absent in high-grade PanIN stroma. TSP-1 expression paralleled CD36 expression. These findings suggest that the possible relationship between the repression of CD36 in the stromal vasculature of high-grade PanIN and reduced PPAR and TSP-1 signaling.Higher-grade PanINs harbor a unique stroma characterized by FC formation and an increased proportion of CD36-negative vessels.The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Although Mettl3-mediated N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification has confirmed to regulate mammalian development, the precise mechanisms by which it controls myoblast differentiation and fusion remain unclear. Here, we found that Mettl3 expression and global m6A levels decreased during myogenic differentiation. Mettl3 knockdown inhibited myoblast proliferation, promoted myoblast differentiation and fusion, and reduced protein degradation in myotubes, whereas its overexpression had the opposite effects. High-throughput sequencing identified forkhead box O1 (FOXO1) as a potential target of Mettl3-mediated myogenesis. Mechanically, Mettl3-mediated methylation of FOXO1 3'untranslated region (3'UTR) promotes its translation in a Ythdf3-dependent manner, thereby suppressing the MyoD1-Myomaker/Myomixer axis and activating the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS). Furthermore, FOXO1 knockdown alleviates the impaired myoblast differentiation and fusion induced by Mettl3 overexpression by upregulating the MyoD1-Myomaker/Myomixer axis and suppressing the UPS. Collectively, these findings indicate that Mettl3 inhibits myoblast differentiation and fusion via the FOXO1-mediated MyoD1-Myomaker/Myomixer axis and UPS in an m6A-Ythdf3-dependent manner.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The mechanism of cholestatic liver injury (CLI) is unclear, and effective therapies are lacking. While peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα) agonists show potential hepatoprotective effect and pyroptosis is implicated in hepatocellular damage, how PPARα activation mitigates lithocholic acid (LCA)-induced pyroptosis remains unknown.The hepatoprotective effect of PPARα agonists was evaluated in a mouse model of intrahepatic cholestasis induced by LCA. Liver injury was assessed via serum biochemistry, hematoxylin and eosin and TUNEL staining, and electron microscopy. Pyroptosis pathways were analyzed using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction, Western blot, and co-immunoprecipitation.Combined morphological, histopathological, and biochemical analyses confirmed that PPARα activation protects against CLI. Compared with LCA treatment alone, PPARα activation significantly attenuated the elevation of serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), the increased TUNEL-positive cells, and the formation of hepatocyte membrane pores. Mechanistically, PPARα activation suppressed both NOD-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome-mediated pyroptosis and apoptosis protease-activating factor-1 (APAF-1)/CASPASE-3/GSDME-mediated pyroptosis. Furthermore, PPARα agonist pretreatment inhibited activation of the nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) and forkhead box O1 (FOXO1) signaling pathways.PPARα protects against LCA-induced CLI by inhibiting both NLRP3 inflammasome-mediated pyroptosis associated with NF-κB and APAF-1/CASPASE-3/GSDME-mediated pyroptosis associated with the FOXO1 signaling pathway.© 2026 The Third Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-Sen University. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd.
Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is a common pregnancy complication associated with adverse maternal and fetal outcomes. Although the prevalence of GDM is high, the molecular mechanisms involved in GDM-related placental dysfunction remain poorly understood. This study aimed to investigate the roles of Forkhead box O1 (FoxO1) and fibroblast growth factor 12 (FGF12; a non-FGF receptor) in regulating trophoblast survival under GDM conditions.Placental tissue from women with GDM and matched non-GDM controls were collected to assess FGF12 expression. HTR8/SVneo trophoblast cells under high-glucose conditions were used to assess cellular functional assays, including proliferation, migration, and apoptosis, following FGF12 knockdown or overexpression.The level of FGF12 was significantly attenuated in placental tissues from GDM cases. Silencing FGF12 decreased trophoblast growth and migration, and increased apoptosis induced by high glucose, while FGF12 overexpression reversed these effects. Mechanistically, FoxO1 directly bound to the FGF12 promoter, downregulated its expression. In placental samples from GDM pregnancies, FoxO1 expression was negatively correlated with FGF12 levels. Furthermore, FoxO1 inhibited trophoblast proliferation and migration, while FGF12 overexpression partially rescued the inhibitory effects of FoxO1.These findings suggest that the FoxO1/FGF12 pathway may contribute to impaired trophoblast function in GDM. This study provides preliminary evidence for a regulatable molecular pathway involved in GDM-associated placental dysfunction; however, further validation in larger cohorts and physiologically relevant models is required before clinical applications can be applied.
Abnormal cardiac trabeculation often leads to congenital heart disease (CHD). TIE2-ANG1 signaling is a key regulator of endocardial growth during trabeculation. However, little is known about the underlying mechanisms. Here, we demonstrate that loss of endocardial Tie2 via Nfatc1Cre resulted in increased nuclear localization of forkhead box O1 (FOXO1), reduced phosphorylation of AKT (the direct regulator of FOXO1) and reduced expression of several proliferation promoting genes in endocardial cells (EdCs). The cardiac defects seen in endocardial Tie2-deficient mouse hearts were phenocopied by forced activation of FOXO1 within the endocardium and partially rescued by loss of Foxo1. Conversely, excessive PI3K signaling (the direct regulator of phosphorylation of AKT) in EdCs caused cardiac hypotrabeculation. Further, we identify that endocardial loss of Tie2 resulted in impaired cleavage of versican, which was associated with enhanced expression of ADAMTS endogenous inhibitor TIMP3 in Tie2-cko EdCs. Thus, our results suggest that TIE2 signaling in the early embryonic endocardium promotes endocardial growth via sequestering FOXO1 within the cytoplasm and modulates cardiomyocyte proliferation via stimulating versican cleavage to orchestrate myocardial trabeculation, providing insights into the pathogenesis of CHD.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
This study aimed to investigate the effects and mechanism of Sparassis latifolia polysaccharides (SLPs) on hepatic glucose metabolism disorders induced by a high-fat diet combined with streptozotocin (STZ) in mice. A mouse model of hepatic glucose metabolism disorder was established and treated with different doses of SLPs (100, 200, and 400 mg/kg) via gavage for 8 weeks, alongside control, model, and positive control groups (metformin hydrochloride). The effects of SLPs were systematically evaluated through pyruvate tolerance tests (PTT), hepatic glycogen content measurement, liver histomorphological analysis (HE and oil red O staining), transcriptomics, and validation of key signaling pathways using RT-qPCR and Western blot. The results showed that, compared to the model group, medium and high doses of SLPs significantly reduced area under the curve (AUC) of PTT, increased hepatic glycogen content, and ameliorated liver histopathological damage and lipid accumulation in the liver. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that SLPs intervention significantly modulated differentially expressed genes related to glucose and lipid metabolism, which were enriched in signaling pathways such as phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (AKT)/forkhead box O1 (FOXO1) signaling pathway. Further validation demonstrated that SLPs up-regulated mRNA expression levels of insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF1R), protein kinase B2 (AKT2), and phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase regulatory subunit 1 (PIK3R1) in the liver of mice with glucose metabolism disorders, and down-regulated the mRNA expression levels of FOXO1 and fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase 1 (FBP1). Additionally, SLPs up-regulated p-FOXO1 protein expression level and down-regulated phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) protein expression level. These results suggest that SLPs can effectively improve hepatic glucose metabolism disorders in mice induced by a high-fat diet combined with STZ by activating the PI3K/AKT/FOXO1 signaling pathway, involving the inhibition of key gluconeogenic enzymes and promotion of glucose utilization.
Climate change driven heat stress (HS) causes major losses in the productive and reproductive performance of swine. Using temperature-humidity index (THI) based quantification of heat load as a framework, this review integrates HS effects across the endocrine and metabolic axis, the gut barrier microbiota, immune axis, and the reproductive axis. Heat stress, in the context of hypothalamic, pituitary, adrenal (HPA) sympathetic-adrenomedullary activation and insulin, catecholamine, and cortisol crosstalk, is accompanied by relative hyperinsulinemia and, via pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 4 mediated pyruvate dehydrogenase inhibition and the lactate dehydrogenase/hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) axis, repartitions substrate utilization toward glucose, thereby constraining lipid mobilization. Within the gut immune axis, β-diversity, centered dysbiosis and short chain fatty acids (SCFA) depletion weaken HIF-1α, dependent mucosal barrier defenses; together with increased lipopolysaccharide translocation, this hyperactivates TLR4/ NF-κB signaling, the NLR family pyrin domain containing 3 inflammasome, and Th17/IL-17 pathways. Evidence from fecal microbiota transplantation supports a causal role for dysbiosis in pathogenesis. In the reproductive axis, dysregulated hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal-HPA crosstalk impairs follicular and luteal function and compromises placental nutrient transport; intrauterine HS can reprogram F1 offspring, with lasting effects on metabolism, immunity, and reproduction. In conclusion, HS is a systems level stressor that perturbs multiple physiological axes; progress will require standardized HS models, multi omics and multigenerational follow up, and integrated environment, nutrition, and management strategies. Beta diversity shifts in the gut microbiota and SCFA depletion emerge as core pathophysiologic mediators, supporting their use as early biomarkers and intervention targets and underscoring the need for focused investigation.
Diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM) is characterized by microvascular dysfunction. While vascular endothelial cells (ECs) have been widely studied, the role of cardiac lymphatic ECs (LECs) in DCM remains unknown.A mouse model of DCM was induced by a high-fat diet (HFD) with streptozotocin (STZ) injection. We performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) on cardiac tissues from mice with DCM and control mice. We then applied clustering, RNA velocity, pseudotime analysis, and CellChat cell-cell communication analysis to define lymphatic endothelial cell (LEC) heterogeneity and underlying regulatory networks.Our analysis revealed profound pathological remodeling of the cardiac lymphatic architecture in diabetic hearts, marked by decreased LEC numbers and impaired function. Cell-cell communication analysis demonstrated impaired VEGF-C/VEGFR3 signaling between venous ECs (VECs) and LECs in diabetic hearts. We identified the upregulation of pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 4 (PDK4) expression in diabetic LECs as a key driver of metabolic reprogramming, leading to impaired cell migration.This study mapped the profile of LECs in diabetic hearts and revealed a dual pathogenic mechanism involving metabolic disorders driven by PDK4 and disruption of venous-lymphatic communication. These findings may provide new strategies for the treatment of DCM.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42444226 is a review article
Excessive lipid accumulation is a hallmark of metabolic disorders which includes obesity and insulin resistance; however, effective therapeutic strategies remain limited. Tamarixetin (Tx), a naturally occurring flavonoid with diverse pharmacological properties, has not been fully characterized in the context of lipid metabolism. In this study, we explored the metabolic benefits and molecular mechanisms of Tx in a Western diet (WD)-induced obesity model. Transcriptomic profiling revealed that Tx reversed WD-induced gene expression patterns, notably suppressing Pdk4 and inducing Phlda1 expression. Mechanistically, docking analysis suggested that Tx interacts with the acetyl-CoA-binding region within the p300 histone acetyltransferase domain, thereby attenuating H3K9 acetylation at the Pdk4 promoter. This epigenetic inhibition of Pdk4 led to activation of the p38/AMPK signaling cascade, upregulation of PPARGC1A and CPT1A, and enhanced insulin sensitivity in vitro. Collectively, our findings identify Tx as a novel epigenetic modulator that simultaneously suppresses lipogenic gene expression and restores metabolic signaling. Given its natural origin and multifaceted mode of action, Tx emerges as a promising candidate for therapeutic intervention in metabolic disorders.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42358142 is a review article
Exposure to acute hypoxia severely impairs skeletal muscle function, but the temporal dynamics and underlying mechanisms remain unclear.Male C57BL/6 mice were exposed to normobaric hypoxia (FiO2 = 11.8%, simulating 4,500 m) for 0, 12, 24, 48, and 72 h. Exercise performance was evaluated through endurance and strength tests. Transcriptomic and metabolic adaptations were detected through RNA-seq and biochemical assays. Target validation was performed using adeno-associated virus (AAV) mediated gene knockdown and dichloroacetate (DCA).Endurance was most severely impaired after 12 h of hypoxic exposure and showed a trend toward recovery by 72 h, whereas muscle strength declined progressively. Hypoxia induced a metabolic reprogramming favoring oxidative phosphorylation, coupled with a marked upregulation of PDK4 at 12 h. This was associated with increased pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) phosphorylation, favoring the diversion of pyruvate away from oxidation and contributing to lactate accumulation. Both DCA treatment and AAV-mediated PDK4 knockdown improved endurance performance under hypoxic conditions.These findings suggest that acute hypoxia impairs endurance, in part through PDK4-mediated alterations in pyruvate metabolism, providing a mechanistic basis for optimizing nutritional and therapeutic strategies under hypoxic stress.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42302976 is a review article
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a progressive and fatal lung disorder with limited therapeutic options, necessitating the identification of novel pathogenic mechanisms and therapeutic targets. Here, we report a critical role for the RNA acetyltransferase NAT10 in driving pulmonary fibrosis through epitranscriptomic regulation of mitochondrial metabolism. We found that NAT10 and its catalyzed N4-acetylcytidine (ac4C) modification were significantly upregulated in fibrotic lungs from IPF patients and bleomycin-challenged mice, particularly within activated fibroblasts. Genetic ablation of NAT10 in fibroblasts markedly attenuated fibrotic progression, whereas its overexpression exacerbated the pathology. Mechanistically, integrated transcriptomic and biochemical analyses identified pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 4 (PDK4) as a key downstream target whose mRNA stability was enhanced by NAT10-mediated ac4C modification. This post-transcriptional regulation led to PDK4 upregulation, which in turn promoted mitochondrial fission and reactive oxygen species production, thereby facilitating fibroblast-to-myofibroblast transition and excessive extracellular matrix deposition. Furthermore, we delineated the upstream regulation of NAT10, demonstrating that TGF-β1 transcriptionally induces NAT10 expression via direct Smad3 binding to its promoter, forming a positive feedback loop that sustains fibrotic activation. Our study unveils the NAT10-ac4C-PDK4 axis as a central regulator of mitochondrial dynamics in pulmonary fibrosis and highlights NAT10 as a promising therapeutic target for restoring metabolic homeostasis and ameliorating fibrotic lung remodeling.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The loss of smooth muscle cell (SMC) contractile phenotype contributes to various diseases including atherosclerosis. However, its metabolic basis is not entirely elucidated. Since the transforming growth factor beta (TGFβ) signaling is among principal regulators of SMC contractility, we studied metabolic regulation of TGFβ signaling in SMCs in vitro and atherosclerotic mouse models and human lesions. We found that TGFβ induced Ac-CoA synthetase 2 (ACSS2)-dependent Ac-CoA production, by suppressing pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 4 (PDK4). This stabilized R-SMADs and TGFβ receptor 1, preserving SMC contractile phenotype. SMC-specific PDK4 knockout mimicked the effect of TGFβ signaling both metabolically and phenotypically, increasing glucose-derived synthesis of Ac-CoA and SMC contractile phenotype. SMC-specific Pdk4 knockout in ApoE knockout mice reduced atherosclerosis. Furthermore, human specimens demonstrated a strong correlation between PDK4 level and atherosclerosis severity. These findings indicate that continuous TGFβ signaling, critical to the maintenance of the normal SMC contractile state and is regulated by PDK4 and carbohydrate metabolism.Reducing PDK4 metabolically restricts aortic plaque growth via TGFβ-dependent SMC contractility.
We report a thirty-six-year-old woman with intellectual disability who was referred for evaluation of suspected obstructive sleep apnea. The initial clinical impression suggested a syndromic case, so comprehensive genetic testing was undertaken. Overnight polysomnography revealed a severe rapid eye movement-predominant obstructive sleep apnea syndrome with an apnea-hypopnea index of 31.9 events per hour, rapid eye movement apnea-hypopnea index of 113.8 events per hour, and lowest oxygen saturation of 66%. Treatment with continuous positive airway pressure improved respiratory and sleep quality indices and was well tolerated. Whole-exome sequencing identified a de novo splice site variant in the pleckstrin homology domain interacting protein gene (c.41-1G > A), confirming a molecular diagnosis of Chung-Jansen Syndrome. Chung-Jansen syndrome is a rare neurodevelopmental disorder caused by heterozygous pathogenic variants in the pleckstrin homology domain interacting protein gene, marked by developmental delay, intellectual disability, behavioral abnormalities, dysmorphism, and progressive obesity. PHIP influences central and peripheral pathways controlling satiety, pancreatic function, and body weight. Despite frequent reports of sleep problems, systematic evaluation of sleep-disordered breathing has been limited. This adult case provides the first polysomnographic confirmation in the syndrome, supporting proactive screening for obstructive sleep apnea-especially in those with obesity. Integrating genetic assessment into sleep care can reduce diagnostic delays and better guide therapy and prognosis.
Impaired osteogenic differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) contributes to osteoporosis (OP) pathogenesis. While RNA modifications such as N6-methyladenosine (m6A) regulate stem cell differentiation, their role in OP remains unclear. Transcriptomic analysis revealed upregulated basic helix-loop-helix family member e22 (Bhlhe22) in OP-BMSCs. This study aimed to investigate whether dysregulated m6A modification contributes to OP by upregulating Bhlhe22, thereby impairing the osteogenic differentiation of BMSCs.Female Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to ovariectomy (OVX) to establish an OP model. BMSCs were isolated, characterized by flow cytometry and trilineage differentiation, and subjected to osteogenic induction. Bhlhe22 expression was modulated via lentiviral overexpression, siRNA-mediated knockdown, and adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated shRNA knockdown in vivo. Gene expression was assessed by immunofluorescence, quantitative PCR (qPCR), western blotting, and RNA sequencing. Osteogenic differentiation was evaluated via alkaline phosphatase (ALP), alizarin red S (ARS) staining, and osteogenic marker expression. Micro-computed tomography (micro-CT) and histology were used to assess bone structure. Mechanisms were investigated via PI3K-Akt pathway activation (recilisib), chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq), ChIP-qPCR, dot blot, methylated RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP)-qPCR, luciferase reporter assays, and site-directed mutagenesis.Global m6A levels were dysregulated in OP-BMSCs. Bhlhe22 mRNA and protein levels were significantly elevated in OP-BMSC and OVX rat femurs. Bhlhe22 knockdown restored the osteogenic potential in OP-BMSCs and increased the bone volume/trabecular thickness in OVX rats, whereas Bhlhe22 overexpression inhibited osteogenesis. BHLHE22 repressed osteogenesis by directly transactivating phosphoinositide-3-kinase regulatory subunit 3 (Pik3r3), activating the PI3K-AKT-GSK3β pathway. Crucially, m6A modification at position 2023 stabilized Bhlhe22 mRNA, increasing its expression. Mutation of this m6A site reduced the inhibitory effect of Bhlhe22.m6A modification stabilizes Bhlhe22 mRNA, leading to its overexpression in OP. Elevated BHLHE22 protein suppresses BMSC osteogenesis by transcriptionally activating Pik3r3 and the PI3K-AKT-GSK3β signaling axis. Targeting the m6A-Bhlhe22-PI3K axis represents a promising therapeutic strategy for osteoporosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Melanoma, a lethal form of skin cancer, is closely linked to mutations in melanocytes. Due to increased resistance to chemotherapy, innovative strategies, including gene and combination therapies, are being explored. This study evaluates the effects of trehalose (TRE) and hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) in enhancing the efficacy of BRAF (V600E)-siRNA in A375 cells.The A375 cells were treated, and changes in cell viability were assessed using MTT assays. Apoptosis was evaluated using flow cytometry. Additionally, gene expression analysis of B-Raf proto-oncogene, serine/threonine kinase (BRAF), Caspase 3 (CASP3), and Phosphoinositide-3-kinase regulatory subunit 3 (PIK3R3) was performed using quantitative RT-PCR.HCQ treatment reduced cell viability and increased apoptosis compared to both control cells and cells treated with TRE. Gene expression analysis showed a significant down-regulation of BRAF expression in cells treated with HCQ and BRAF (V600E)-siRNA compared to siRNA-only treated cells. CASP3 expression was significantly up-regulated in cells treated with combined HCQ and siRNA, indicating a stronger apoptotic response. PIK3R3 expression showed no significant change in the transfected groups.TRE, either alone or combined with siRNA, showed limited efficacy and may counteract the apoptotic benefits of HCQ. Conversely, HCQ, whether used alone or in combination with siRNA, enhanced apoptosis, suggesting promise as a potential treatment for melanoma.© 2025. This work is openly licensed via CC BY 4.0.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40414533 is a review article
Melanoma is one of the most aggressive and deadly skin cancers. Despite advances, effective melanoma treatment is challenging, often requiring a shift from individual therapies to combination approaches. This study explores whether combining dacarbazine (DTIC) and temozolomide (TMZ) with the siRNA approach holds promise for melanoma treatment.To determine the IC50 values of DTIC and TMZ, the A375 cell line was treated with different drug concentrations for 24-72 hr. The best exposure time of BRAF siRNA transfection was performed. Subsequently, cell viability (using the MTT assay), apoptosis (by flow cytometry), and gene expression levels of B-Raf proto-oncogene, serine/threonine kinase (BRAF), caspase 3 (CASP3), and phosphoinositide-3-kinase regulatory subunit 3 (PIK3R3) genes (by quantitative real-time PCR) were assessed in the treated groups (i.e., control, negative controls, DTIC alone, TMZalone, DTIC+ TMZ, BRAF(V600E)siRNA alone, siRNA+ DTIC, siRNA+ TMZ, and siRNA+ DTIC+ TMZ groups).Cell viability significantly decreased in the chemotherapy-only and siRNA+drug groups, although no difference was observed between them. The apoptosis percentage in all treated groups indicated a significant difference compared to the control group. The expression of the BRAF gene notably decreased in the BRAF (V600E) siRNA +drug groups compared to the chemotherapy groups. Despite overexpression of CASP3 in the chemotherapy-treated groups, the most effective enhancement was noted in the siRNA+DTIC+TMZ group (P<0.0001). The mean expression of the PIK3R3 gene in siRNA+chemotherapy groups revealed a notable reduction.These findings suggest that the siRNA-transfected treatment groups have the potential to provide therapeutic effects comparable to those of chemotherapy.© 2025. This work is openly licensed via CC BY 4.0.
Potential genetic variants associated with chicken egg production traits have been extensively identified, most of which are located in the non-coding regions of the genome. However, which functional variants really drive the egg-laying phenotype change remain elusive. In the present study, by integrating the previously screened egg-laying related candidate genetic variants, transcriptome data derived from 16 high- and low-yield Gushi chickens, and epigenomic analyses, 22 potential functional variants (PFVs) were systematically identified. These PFVs potentially drive the differences in egg production phenotypes by affecting the expression of 10 egg-laying related key candidate genes in the hypothalamus (ZNF804B, DPP10, NEO1 and GABRG1), pituitary (DPP10 and GNG7), and ovary (PHIP, OSTN, GADD45B, NFXL1 and ADAMTS17). Subsequently, the regulatory activity and function of one PFV, chr3:79510218A>T, located in the third intron of the pleckstrin homology domain interacting protein gene (PHIP), were investigated in chicken ovarian granulosa cells. Association analysis confirmed the significant association of chr3:79510218A>T with egg number from 21 to 43 week of age in Gushi chicken (P = 0.0022) and Guangxi Yao chicken (P = 0.0388), as well as with ovarian PHIP expression levels (P = 0.0010). Functional analysis indicated that the T allele of chr3:79510218A>T enhanced the transcriptional activity and upregulated PHIP expression in vitro by binding transcription factor forkhead box I1 (FOXI1). Furthermore, the knockdown of PHIP led to the inhibition of ovarian granulosa cell proliferation and a reduction in the synthesis and secretion of progesterone (PROG) hormones. Collectively, this study unveil the egg-laying related functional variants and illustrate a potential genetic regulation mechanism, and will help accelerate the molecular design breeding process of chicken egg production.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Fragment approaches are long-established in target-based ligand discovery, yet their full transformative potential lies dormant because progressing the initial weakly binding hits to potency remains a formidable challenge. The only credible progression paradigm involves multiple cycles of costly conventional design-make-test-analyse medicinal chemistry. We propose an alternative approach to fragment elaboration, namely performing large numbers of parallel and diverse automated multiple step reactions, and evaluating the binding of the crude reaction products by high-throughput protein X-ray crystallography. We show it is effective and low-cost to perform, in parallel, large numbers of non-uniform multi-step reactions, because, even without compound purification, crystallography provides a high-quality readout of binding. This can detect low-level binding of weakly active compounds, which the target binding site extracts directly from crude reaction mixtures. In this proof-of-concept study, we have expanded a fragment hit, from a crystal-based screen of the second bromodomain of pleckstrin homology domain-interacting protein (PHIP(2)), using array synthesis on low-cost robotics. We were able to implement 6 independent multi-step reaction routes of up to 5 steps, attempting the synthesis of 1876 diverse expansions, designs entirely driven by synthetic tractability. The expected product was present in 1108 (59%) crude reaction mixtures, detected by liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LCMS). 22 individual products were resolved in the crystal structures of crude reaction mixtures added to crystals, providing an initial structure activity relationship map. 19 of these showed binding pose stability, while, through binding instability in the remaining 3 products, we could resolve a stereochemical preference for mixtures containing racemic compounds. One compound showed biochemical potency (IC50=34 μM) and affinity (Kd=50 μM) after resynthesis. This approach therefore lends itself to routine fragment progression, if coupled with algorithmically guided compound and reaction design and new formalisms for data analysis.© 2025 The Author(s). Angewandte Chemie International Edition published by Wiley-VCH GmbH.
Periodontal diseases are prevalent among middle-aged and elderly individuals. There's still no satisfactory solution for tooth loss caused by periodontal diseases. Human periodontal ligament stem cells (hPDLSCs) is a distinctive subgroup of mesenchymal stem cells, which play a crucial role in periodontal supportive tissues, but their application value hasn't been fully explored yet. As a regulatory subunit of PI3K, PIK3R3's role in stem cell regulation remains poorly comprehended.This study aims to explore the regulatory effect of PIK3R3 on differentiation and senescence of hPDLSCs and the underlying mechanism, as well as whether overexpression of PIK3R3 mitigate alveolar bone loss in aged rats.Human PDLSC lines with both PIK3R3 knockdown and overexpression are established. Osteogenic, adipogenic, chondrogenic and senescent induction are used to test the effect of PIK3R3 on senescence in vitro. Model of alveolar bone loss in aged mice is used to reveal the effect of PIK3R3 in vivo. FOXO1 siRNA is used for mechanism exploration.Knockdown of PIK3R3 inhibits the mRNA and protein expression of markers in osteogenic, adipogenic, and chondrogenic differentiation of hPDLSCs but promotes in vitro senescence of hPDLSCs, including senescence markers expression, telomerase density and reactive oxygen species. Overexpression of PIK3R3 has the opposite effect. Furthermore, the result of Micro-CT and tissue section shows that overexpression of PIK3R3 in elder rats mitigates alveolar bone loss. Mechanistically, PIK3R3 regulates senescence of hPDLSCs through modulating FOXO1 expression. Expression of FOXO1 is altered when PIK3R3 is knocked down or overexpressed in senescent medium. Knockdown of FOXO1 promotes senescence of hPDLSCs and the senescence promoting effect of knocking down PIK3R3 is weakened when FOXO1 is highly expressed.These findings indicate that PIK3R3 modulates senescence of hPDLSCs by regulating FOXO1 expression and shows promise as a therapeutic target for mitigating age-related alveolar bone loss.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The fat tail of sheep is an adaptive trait that facilitates their adaptation to harsh natural environments. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been demonstrated to play crucial roles in the regulation of tail fat deposition.In this study, miRNA-Seq was employed to investigate the expression profiles of miRNAs during different developmental stages of sheep fat tails and elucidate the functions of differentially expressed miRNAs (DE miRNAs).A total of 350 DE miRNAs were identified, among which 191, 60, 26, and 21 were significantly upregulated in tail fat tissues of fetal, lamb, hogget Altay sheep, and adult Xinjiang fine wool (XFW) sheep but downregulated in other stages. Furthermore, we predicted a set of candidate target genes (4,476) for the top 20 DE miRNAs. Gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis showed that they involve in several adipogenesis-related pathways. Subsequent investigations indicated that four DE miRNAs, miR-433-3p, miR-485-3p, miR-409-3p, and miR-495-3p, could suppress the expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) and phosphoinositide-3-kinase regulatory subunit 3 (PIK3R3) and regulate the preadipocyte development in sheep. Meanwhile, the lipid metabolism-related genes, fatty acid-binding protein (FABP3), perilipin 1 (PLIN1), adiponectin C1Q and collagen domain containing (ADIPOQ), and lipoprotein lipase (LPL), were significantly downregulated (p < 0.01).The expression patterns of miRNAs exhibited significant fluctuations during different development periods of the fat tail, and some of them may participate in the regulation of tail fat deposition by modulating the proliferation and differentiation of preadipocytes.Copyright © 2024 Zhang, Wang, Yang, Gao, Ning, Xu, Deng and Gan.
Monoallelic damaging variants in PHIP (MIM*612870), encoding the Pleckstrin Homology Domain Interacting Protein, have been associated with a novel neurodevelopmental disorder, also termed Chung-Jansen syndrome (CHUJANS, MIM#617991). Most of the described individuals show developmental delay (DD)/intellectual disability (ID), obesity/overweight, and variable congenital anomalies, so the condition can be considered as an ID-overweight syndrome.We evaluated a child presenting with DD/ID and a craniofacial phenotype reminiscent of a Pitt-Hopkins syndrome (PTHS)-like condition. We performed a clinical exome analysis on his biological sample, as well as an in silico prediction of the obtained data. At the same time, we interrogated the DeepGestalt technology powered by Face2Gene (F2G), using a frontal image of the proband, and clinically reviewed the earlier CHUJANS patients. In this child, we found a novel PHIP pathogenetic variant, which we corroborated through a protein modeling approach. The F2G platform supported the initial clinical hypothesis of a PTHS-like condition, while the clinical review highlighted the lack of the main frequent CHUJANS clinical features in this child.The unusual clinical presentation of this novel patient resembles a PTHS-like condition. However, a novel variant in PHIP has been unexpectedly detected, expanding the phenotypic spectrum of CHUJANS. Notably, PTHS (MIM#610954), which is a different ID syndrome caused by heterozygous variants in TCF4 (MIM*610954), is not classically considered in the differential diagnosis of CHUJANS nor has been cited in the previous studies. This could support other complex diagnoses and invite further patients' descriptions.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42415929 is a review article
The omentum is a vascularized, immune-active tissue with regenerative potential, particularly when activated by intraperitoneal stimuli. Its secreted factors may promote lymphangiogenesis, offering a novel approach to lymphedema treatment.The omentum was activated in mice using an intraperitoneal polydextran slurry. Gene expression was evaluated over time to assess inflammatory and lymphatic markers. Culture supernatants from the activated omentum were collected, and vascular endothelial growth factor-C ( VEGF-C ) levels were measured. Therapeutic potential was tested in a mouse hindlimb lymphedema model through local application of the supernatant. Histological analysis assessed skin thickness, lymphatic vessel density, and macrophage infiltration.Activation of the omentum induced early upregulation of hypoxia-inducible factor-1 α ( HIF-1α ) and angiopoietin-2 ( Ang2 ), followed by increased expression of Forkhead Box C2 ( Foxc2 ) and Prospero homeobox-1 ( Prox1 ) by day 7, indicating lymphatic maturation. VEGF-C levels in the supernatant were significantly elevated. In the lymphedema model, treated mice exhibited reduced peak edema, faster resolution, and increased skin thickness and lymphatic vessel density compared with controls. Histological analysis revealed enhanced lymphangiogenesis and reduced macrophage infiltration. Downregulation of lymphatic vessel endothelial hyaluronan receptor 1 ( Lyve1 ) and Neuropilin-1 ( NRP1 ) suggested a predominance of tissue remodeling over structural maintenance.Activated omental tissue secretes potent bioactive factors that promote lymphangiogenesis and tissue regeneration. These findings indicate the potential of activated omentum for functional characterization and possible applications in regenerative medicine. Further investigation in chronic and clinical models is warranted to advance its translational potential.The Author(s). This is an open access article published by Thieme under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, permitting unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction so long as the original work is properly cited. ( https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ ).
The molecular regulators behind the pathogenesis of keloid have not been fully determined. Through Mendelian randomization and multiomics analyses, we identified retinoic acid receptor responder 2 (RARRES2) as a causal risk factor for keloid. We further found that RARRES2 is mainly enriched in fibroblasts in various human tissues. RARRES2 is highly expressed in keloid tissue and mainly enriched in fibroblasts of keloid. Heparan sulfate proteoglycan 2 (HSPG2) was identified as a potential downstream effector molecule of RARRES2, and p-STAT3 was proven to bind to the promoter region of HSPG2. We demonstrated that RARRES2 promotes the expression of HSPG2 by phosphorylating STAT3. Moreover, we confirmed that RARRES2 exerts the pro-scarring effect through the STAT3/HSPG2 pathway in primary fibroblasts and animal models. Overall, our results demonstrate that RARRES2 is a key regulator of keloid pathogenesis through STAT3-mediated HSPG2 activation, and RARRES2 can serve as a specific molecular target in patients with keloid.© 2026 The Author(s).
Depression is a leading cause of global disability, yet its biological mechanisms remain elusive, limiting therapeutic efficacy. We investigated Ndel1 oligopeptidase (NudE Neurodevelopment Protein 1 Like 1), a neurodevelopmental enzyme involved in neuronal migration and brain morphology with neuropeptidase activity, as a potential biomarker in major depressive disorder/unipolar depression (MDD/UD) or bipolar depression (BD). Serum Ndel1 activity was significantly elevated in both MDD/UD and BD compared to age- and sex-matched healthy control (HC). In vitro assays revealed that while psychotropics and patient serum both reduced neurite density - indicating circulating neurotoxic factors - intracellular responses differed. Indeed, only MDD/UD serum upregulated neuronal intracellular Ndel1 (iNdel1) activity, suggesting a disorder-specific mechanism against serum-induced neuronal stress evidenced by decreased neuronal cell viability. Additionally, we identified distinct immune signatures since sera from both disorders activated human Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3), while TLR4 activation was exclusive to MDD/UD serum. These findings support the potential of Ndel1 as a peripheral biomarker candidate of neuronal injury, and propose TLR profiles as tools for differential diagnosis, strengthening the rationale for mechanism-based neuroimmune therapeutics for depression. Furthermore, a possible link between specific immune activation and Ndel1 activity modulation in neurons underscores a broader connection between the immune system and the cytoskeletal dynamics, while integrating the pharmacological response and neuronal structural morphology.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Cardiomyopathy is one of the complications of diabetes, among which myocardial fibrosis is the most typical feature. Ubiquitin-specific peptidase 18 (USP18) is a deubiquitinating enzyme. Multiple studies suggest that it may have the potential to protect against myocardial injury under diabetes, but the specific mechanism remains unclear.The high glucose (HG) was used to treat neonatal mouse ventricular myocytes (NMVMs) to induce diabetic myocardial injury models, and gene expression was detected by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and Western blot. The phenotypes of NMVMs were measured using cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8), the corresponding kits, flow cytometry, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and DCFH-DA probe. Besides, cell fibrosis was reflected by immunofluorescence (IF) and Western blot assay. Ubiquitination analysis and Cycloheximide (CHX) experiment were applied to assess protein ubiquitination and degradation, respectively.USP18 was downregulated in HG-induced NMVMs, and USP18 overexpression promoted viability and inhibited apoptosis of NMVMs exposed to HG. Meanwhile, the inflammation, oxidative stress, and fibrosis of NMVMs impelled by HG were reversed after USP18 upregulation. Mechanically, USP18 stabilized forkhead box C2 (FOXC2) expression by reducing its ubiquitination to participate in regulating NMVM viability, apoptosis, inflammation, oxidative stress, and fibrosis via the Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) pathway.USP18 inhibits the ubiquitination of FOXC2 to stabilize its expression, thereby mediating HG-induced myocardial injury through the JAK/STAT pathway.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Diabetes Investigation published by Asian Association for the Study of Diabetes (AASD) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Pulmonary fibrosis (PF) is a progressive and fatal interstitial lung disease, with unclear pathogenesis and limited therapeutic options. Here, we investigated the role and mechanism of forkhead box C2 (FOXC2) in pulmonary fibrosis. The results showed that FOXC2 expression was significantly upregulated in lung tissues of mice with bleomycin (BLM)-induced pulmonary fibrosis. In vitro experiments demonstrated that knockdown of FOXC2 inhibited transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1)-induced epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in A549 alveolar epithelial cells, reduced cell migration and invasion, and suppressed the activation of the TGF-β/Smad signaling pathway. Mechanistically, FOXC2 could bind to the promoter of cytochrome P450 1B1 (CYP1B1) to regulate its transcriptional activation. Knockdown of CYP1B1 exerted similar inhibitory effects on EMT and the TGF-β/Smad pathway to FOXC2 knockdown, while overexpression of CYP1B1 reversed the inhibitory effect of FOXC2 knockdown on TGF-β1-induced EMT. In vivo experiments confirmed that downregulation of FOXC2 attenuated BLM-induced pulmonary fibrosis in mice, which was associated with reduced CYP1B1 expression and inhibited activation of the TGF-β/Smad pathway. Collectively, these findings suggest that FOXC2 promotes pulmonary fibrosis by regulating CYP1B1 transcription and activating the TGF-β/Smad pathway, providing a potential therapeutic target for pulmonary fibrosis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Preeclampsia is a severe hypertensive disorder of pregnancy associated with low SIRT1 (sirtuin 1) levels in trophoblasts. Single-cell sequencing showed abnormal activation of trophoblast Rarres2 (retinoic acid receptor responder 2) and macrophage Cmklr1 (chemokine-like receptor 1) at the maternal-fetal interface in systemic Sirt1 heterozygous knockout mice. This study investigated how low SIRT1 in trophoblasts increases RARRES2 expression, affecting macrophage polarization and preeclampsia pathogenesis.We conducted coculture experiments to analyze trophoblast RARRES2 and macrophage CMKLR1 interactions, performed luciferase and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays to validate transcription factors for RARRES2 in trophoblasts, and utilized mass spectrometry and immunoprecipitation to identify transcriptional coregulators. cKO (trophoblast-specific Sirt1 knockout) mice were generated and treated with Rarres2 knockout or progesterone supplementation to validate the role of the SIRT1/RARRES2 axis in preeclampsia pathogenesis and prevention by progesterone. Finally, we measured RARRES2 and SIRT1 levels in the plasma of patients with preeclampsia.Low-SIRT1 expression in trophoblasts promoted M1-type macrophage polarization and inhibited trophoblast invasion, mediated by the RARRES2-CMKLR1 interaction. SIRT1 regulated RARRES2 expression in trophoblasts by recruiting NCOR2 (nuclear receptor corepressor 2). cKO mice showed preeclampsia-like symptoms and RARRES2-CMKLR1 activation at the maternal-fetal interface, which were reversed by Rarres2 knockout or progesterone supplementation. Notably, RARRES2 levels were higher and were a risk factor, whereas SIRT1 levels were lower and were a protective factor for preeclampsia in early pregnancy.This study highlights SIRT1's potential role in regulating abnormal trophoblast-macrophage interactions at the maternal-fetal interface in preeclampsia and offers a new strategy for its early prediction and prevention.
The oligopeptidase Ndel1 (NudE neurodevelopment protein 1 like 1) is a multifunctional protein implicated in neurodevelopmental processes, intensively investigated as a potential biomarker in psychiatric disorders. While its roles in regulating the cytoskeleton are well-studied, the global consequences of its loss on the brain's peptide landscape are unknown. This study presents a comprehensive, region-resolved peptidomic resource detailing the consequences of postnatal Ndel1 loss in the mouse cortex, hippocampus, striatum, and cerebellum. We also validated this method of microwave protease inactivation followed by acidic and organic extractions by means of this peptidome analysis across several brain regions. More specifically, using a conditional knockout mouse model with Ndel1 deletion in forebrain excitatory neurons, we employed complementary acidic and alcoholic extraction workflows coupled to liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). We generated a comparative atlas of differentially abundant peptides (DAPs), identifying hundreds of peptide changes across the different brain regions and extraction methods. Gene Ontology analysis of the inferred source proteins revealed alterations in pathways related to cytoskeletal organization, synaptic function, and cellular metabolism. This dataset provides a foundational resource for generating new hypotheses about Ndel1's region-specific functions and serves as a valuable reference for the neurodevelopmental and neuropeptidomics communities. Understanding these Ndel1-driven changes is crucial, providing valuable insights into the pathophysiology of neurodevelopmental and mental disorders linked to reduced Ndel1 activity, such as schizophrenia, autism, and bipolar disorder. This holistic view may reveal novel therapeutic targets for these complex conditions.© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of Neurochemistry published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of International Society for Neurochemistry.
Adeno-associated virus (AAV) gene therapy is frequently hindered by dose-limiting toxicities and preexisting neutralizing antibodies (nAbs). Here, we evaluate enhancer polymer (ePL), a cargo-less poly(L-lactic-co-glycolic acid) nanoparticle, the systemic administration of which demonstrated biocompatibility in nonhuman primates (NHPs) and generated a protransduction serum secretome that significantly enhanced AAV uptake in human iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes. Proteomic analysis of human peripheral blood mononuclear cell-derived secretomes identified a transient upregulation of AAV-entry factors, including ITGB3, alongside a downregulation of inflammatory cytokine pathways. Mechanistically, ePL-stimulated macrophages release a paracrine secretome that triggers the rapid, transient degradation of hepatic insulin receptor substrate 2 and subsequent AKT inhibition in liver and isolated primary mouse hepatocytes. Additionally, ePL attenuated the levels of NHP-derived nAbs in vitro and in a mouse-NHP xenotransfusion model without depleting total systemic immunoglobulins. Finally, ePL reduced Immunoglobulin G (IgG) secretory capacity of splenic B cells, suggesting a mechanistic link by which levels of nAbs are likely attenuated. Together, these findings highlight ePL as a promising supporting agent to improve AAV gene transfer, warranting its further optimization for clinical translation.
Influenza is a highly contagious virus with most individuals showing recovery within a week after symptom onset. However, children, the elderly, and those with chronic health conditions are at high risk of developing serious complications. Extensive immune cell infiltration of the lung and massive production of pro-inflammatory cytokines can result in lung tissue damage and disruption, resulting in hypoxia and death. During the 2024-2025 influenza season in the USA, influenza caused an estimated 27,000-130,000 deaths. Our previous studies have shown that agents known to drive polarization of macrophages into the M2a phenotype mitigated inflammatory responses to influenza H1N1 A/PR/8/34 (PR8). Since IRS2 dampens the IL-4-induced differentiation to the M2a subtype, we sought to determine the impact of IRS2 on PR8 infection. Contrary to expectations, IRS2-/- mice exhibited enhanced susceptibility to PR8 when compared to IRS2+/+ mice, which was associated with a significant drop in blood oxygen saturation. Additionally, PR8 infection induced significantly greater inflammation in the lungs of IRS2-/- mice than IRS2+/+ mice. Conversely, viral replication was not significantly different. Significantly increased levels of the inflammatory mediator HMGB1 and airway epithelial cell denuding were observed in the lungs of IRS2-/- mice, with a concomitant decrease in M2a gene expression. Mice with myeloid-specific knockout of IRS2 showed no enhanced sensitivity to PR8, supporting the hypothesis that the major impact of IRS2-deficiency on host response to PR8 infection is not myeloid cell-intrinsic. Overall, these results suggest that in the absence of IRS2, airway epithelial cells are especially sensitive to influenza-induced damage through dysregulated inflammation, resulting in increased susceptibility during infection.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is increasingly recognized as a systemic disorder, with skeletal muscle dysfunction contributing substantially to frailty and functional decline. Although amyloid-beta (Aβ) has been detected in peripheral tissues, including skeletal muscle, how it drives muscle degeneration and whether exercise can counteract this process remain to be elucidated.This study aimed to define the molecular mechanisms underlying Aβ-induced skeletal muscle degeneration in AD and assess the potential of high-intensity interval training (HIIT) to alleviate muscle dysfunction and related pathology.We employed a small-scale exploratory clinical cohort and the 5 × FAD mouse model, integrating transcriptomic and metabolomic profiling with in vitro and in vivo functional assays to dissect Aβ-induced muscle pathology and the protective mechanisms of HIIT.AD patients in the exploratory cohort showed a trend toward reduced handgrip strength, mirroring the progressive muscle weakness, myofiber atrophy, and intramuscular Aβ accumulation observed in 5 × FAD mice. Mechanistically, Aβ activated RAGE/NF-κB signaling, driving inflammation and oxidative stress in myofibers. HIIT reversed these pathological changes and concomitantly lowered Aβ levels. Transcriptomic profiling identified fibroblast growth factor 10 (FGF10) as a key exercise-induced mediator: FGF10 activated the FGFR2-AKT-ADAM10 axis to promote RAGE ectodomain shedding, generating soluble RAGE that suppressed Aβ-mediated inflammatory and injury signaling.Our findings define an Aβ-RAGE axis driving AD-associated muscle degeneration and reveal an exercise-responsive FGF10-RAGE protective pathway, reframing AD as a brain-muscle axis disorder and highlighting FGF10 as a promising target for systemic therapeutic intervention.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Severe coagulation and endothelial dysfunction are characteristics of sepsis-induced acute pulmonary coagulopathy with high morbidity and mortality. The primary objective of this research is to investigate the role rFGF10 in ameliorating sepsis-induced coagulation and endothelial dysfunction. FGF10 expression levels in sepsis-induced mice lung tissues and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulated Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were detected and the results showed that they were both elevated. Supplementation with rFGF10 protected HUVECs against LPS stimulation and ameliorated sepsis-induced pulmonary coagulation evidenced by the suppressed coagulation factors and alleviated lung injury. Mechanistically, rFGF10 activated Nrf2-modulated mitophagy by PINK1/Parkin pathway in septic mice, which maintained mitochondrial quality, promoted activities of anti-oxidation and suppressed mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (mtROS), therefore, suppressed phosphorylation of NF-𝑘B, Erk1/2 and P38, which thus, is crucial for rFGF10 protection against sepsis induced pulmonary coagulation. Suppression of Nrf2 with its inhibitor ML385 abolished all beneficial effects of rFGF10 on sepsis-induced mice. These findings revealed the therapeutic effects of rFGF10 on sepsis-induced pulmonary coagulation and endothelial dysfunction, which could be a potential pharmacological strategy for clinic.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Thoracic Society. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Background: Metabolic reprogramming is a hallmark of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and amino acid reprogramming plays an important role in its metastatic progression. However, the function of amino acid reprogramming in HCC metastatic progression remains unclear. This study aimed to elucidate the function and mechanism of amino acid reprogramming, particularly focusing on proline metabolism, in driving HCC metastasis. Methods: HCC cohort and multiple HCC models were enrolled to investigate the role of amino acid reprogramming in HCC metastatic progression. The pro-metastatic effect of l-proline in HCC was consistently validated across in vitro and in vivo studies. Ribosome profiling (Ribo-seq) and l-proline pull-down were used to investigate the mechanism of proline-mediated HCC metastasis. Results: Based on metabolomics and proteomics, we found that proline metabolism was enhanced during HCC metastasis, as evidenced by increased proline levels and proline metabolism-related enzymes in both HCC metastatic patients and mice. Moreover, high levels of proline were found to promote HCC metastasis. Mechanistically, l-proline directly interacted with glutamyl-prolyl-tRNA synthetase 1 (EPRS1) at its Glu1123 residue, thereby selectively enhancing the translation of phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase catalytic subunit α (PIK3CA), AKT serine/threonine kinase 3 (AKT3), and integrin subunit β1 (ITGB1). Importantly, the enhanced protein translation could be abolished by bersiporocin, an EPRS1 inhibitor that prevents l-proline binding to EPRS1. Finally, the inhibitory effect of bersiporocin on HCC metastasis was confirmed in patient-derived orthotopic xenograft models. Conclusions: Our findings not only revealed the critical role of l-proline-bound EPRS1 in promoting HCC metastasis but also indicated that inhibiting this binding could be a promising strategy to prevent metastasis.Copyright © 2026 Hui Zhang et al.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) and advanced fibrotic stages are significant contributors to cirrhosis and liver-related mortality, yet no therapies directly target fibrosis in the later stages of the disease. Fibroblast growth factor 10 (FGF10) facilitates epithelial repair, yet its function and epithelial receptor requirements in chronic liver fibrogenesis are unclear.We quantified hepatic FGF10 and fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) expression across fibrosis stages in biopsies from patients with MASLD and mouse models. We then augmented hepatic FGF10 using adeno-associated virus-mediated liver expression or subcutaneous recombinant human FGF10 in carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) and high-fat diet plus CCl4-induced advanced fibrosis. Histology, immunohistochemistry, biochemistry, RNA sequencing and primary hepatocytes and hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) assays were used to assess the therapeutic effects and underlying mechanisms.Hepatic FGF10 and FGFR2 protein expression were significantly reduced at advanced disease stages. Restoring FGF10 led to regression-associated remodelling of established bridging fibrosis, a decrease in inflammatory cytokines and a reduction in hepatocyte apoptosis, even with continued CCl4 exposure, indicating histologic regression rather than slowed progression. These therapeutic effects required hepatocyte FGFR2, as hepatocyte-specific FGFR2 deletion abolished protection and the associated transcriptional reprogramming of matrix and cytokine networks. In primary hepatocytes, FGF10 activated FGFR2-FGFR substrate 2α (‌FRS2α) signalling, increased inhibitory phosphorylation of glycogen synthase kinase 3β at Ser9 and suppressed nuclear factor kappa B, thereby lowering transforming growth factor β1 and other cytokines and indirectly limiting HSC activation. The efficacy extended to a high-fat diet plus CCl4 model of steatohepatitis.These findings elucidate a hepatocyte-centric FGF10-FGFR2 axis functioning as an epithelial regulator of inflammation and fibrogenesis. Hepatocyte-targeted reinforcement of FGFR2 signalling, alone or combined with metabolic therapies, represents a translational strategy to reprogram the fibrotic niche and facilitate fibrosis regression-associated architectural remodelling in advanced liver fibrosis.Hepatic FGF10 and FGFR2 decline consistently with fibrosis stage in patient liver biopsies and complementary mouse models. Restoring FGF10 through AAV-Fgf10 or recombinant FGF10 reduces hepatocyte apoptosis, inflammation and extracellular matrix deposition. Hepatocyte FGFR2 is required for FGF10-mediated antifibrotic effects and drives transcriptional reprogramming that limits fibrogenesis.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical and Translational Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Shanghai Institute of Clinical Bioinformatics.
Activating mutations in PI3K are one of the most frequent mutations in breast cancer and are associated with worse patient outcomes in many breast cancer subtypes. Despite intense interest, cancer treatments that target the PI3K pathway have been only modestly effective due to intrinsic and acquired resistance mechanisms which reactivate PI3K signaling. Here, we characterize a feedback mechanism by which PI3K pathway inhibitors increase insulin receptor substrate 2 (IRS2) abundance and demonstrate the role of IRS2 in promoting resistance to these drugs. In PIK3CA mutant breast tumors and cell lines, there is a significant reduction in IRS2 mRNA and protein abundance which is reversed by PI3K pathway inhibition and mediated by the transcription factor FOXO3. PIK3CA mutations do not alter IRS1 expression. IRS2 confers resistance to PI3K pathway inhibition by sustaining PI3K signaling in PIK3CA mutant, but not wild-type breast cancer cells. Increased IRS2 abundance also correlates with PI3K pathway inhibitor resistance across PI3K mutant cancer cell lines from a variety of tissues. The clinical relevance of these findings is highlighted by the frequency of PI3K mutations in cancer and the identification of a new target to address the challenges associated with prior efforts to block the reactivation of PI3K signaling during PI3K inhibition.
Objective: To longitudinally investigate the effect of non-surgical periodontal therapy (NSPT) on the transcriptional and translational levels of Superoxide Dismutase (SOD) and Insulin Receptor Substrate type 2 (IRS2) in individuals with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM) and Periodontitis (P). Methods: This clinical study was registered at the Brazilian Clinical Trials Registry (ReBEC-RBR-5m3yxmb). Saliva, peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), and gingival biopsies were collected from 156 individuals, distributed into five groups, each with at least 30 participants: T2DM_poorly_controlled+P, T2DM_well_controlled+P, T2DM_without_P, Periodontitis, and Control. Systemic levels of messenger RNA (mRNA) of Superoxide Dismutase 1 (SOD1) and IRS2 were measured using real-time polymerase chain reaction at baseline, 90, and 180 days after NSPT. SOD enzymatic activity in Saliva and IRS-2 immunohistochemistry in gingival biopsies were also assessed. Results: Higher SOD1 mRNA levels were observed in Control individuals at baseline. In contrast, higher IRS2 mRNA levels were detected in individuals with Periodontitis at baseline, followed by a significant reduction over time. A significant positive longitudinal correlation was identified between IRS2 and SOD1 gene expression in the groups without T2DM, indicating potential functional interaction between the molecules. Salivary SOD enzymatic activity was lower in individuals from the T2DM_poorly_Controlled+P and T2DM_well_Controlled+P groups. SOD concentration (U/g) normalized to the total protein content was higher in the saliva of individuals with Periodontitis. T2DM+P and Periodontitis groups showed extensive inflammatory infiltrate in the gingival biopsies, with predominant IRS-2 immunopositive cells in the T2DM+P groups, independently of the metabolic control. Conclusions: This study shows that non-surgical periodontal therapy (NSPT) is followed by longitudinal changes in IRS2 and SOD1 expression at the mRNA and protein levels in individuals with T2DM+P (poorly/well controlled) and periodontitis, reinforcing the clinical relevance of periodontal treatment in the systemic context of T2DM.
Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory disease characterized by the accumulation of foam cells within the arterial wall. Despite substantial progress, the molecular mechanisms governing foam cell formation remain incompletely understood. Here, we identify fibronectin leucine-rich transmembrane protein 2 (FLRT2) as a previously unrecognized regulator of macrophage-driven atherogenesis through the facilitation of foam cell formation. FLRT2 expression was markedly elevated in macrophages within both murine and human atherosclerotic plaques. Functionally, adenovirus-mediated FLRT2 overexpression aggravated atherosclerotic lesion development in Apoe-/- mice, whereas macrophage-specific Flrt2 deletion significantly reduced the plaque burden in both AAV8-PCSK9-injected and Apoe-/- atherosclerotic models. Mechanistically, the loss of Flrt2 attenuated local inflammatory responses, as indicated by lower proportions of proinflammatory Ly6Chi monocytes in the peritoneal cavity and bone marrow and fewer M1 macrophages in the spleen. Furthermore, FLRT2 promoted foam cell formation by suppressing the cholesterol efflux transporter ABCA1 at the post-transcriptional level. We demonstrate that FLRT2 enhances ABCA1 ubiquitin‒proteasome degradation by inhibiting USP22-mediated deubiquitination. Collectively, our findings identify FLRT2 as a key regulator of macrophage lipid metabolism and inflammation, revealing a novel FLRT2-USP22-ABCA1 axis that promotes foam cell formation and accelerates atherosclerosis. Therefore, targeting FLRT2 may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 40664344 is a review article
Neurodevelopmental disorders such as attention deficit and disruptive behaviour disorders (ADHD), autism spectrum disorder (ASD), and schizophrenia have been increasingly prevalent recently. Previous research has demonstrated that inflammatory activity from autoimmune diseases is involved in neurological diseases. However, some studies question the association between inflammatory activities and neurodevelopmental disorders. Herein, we attempt to clarify this relationship using Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis.We used systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1D) to represent autoimmune diseases. First, we conducted MR analysis to examine associated SNPs between autoimmune and neurodevelopmental disorders. Second, we performed bidirectional MR analysis to identify 429 types of signalling peptides and proteins or relevant receptors with causality reported diseases. Finally, we compared the genes with the gene loci identified in the available TWAS-hub site.The MR results of autoimmune diseases on neurodevelopmental disorders did not present any significant association in all models. However, we identified 20-45 factors in ADHD, ASD, and schizophrenia, including semaphorin 3, IL-27 receptor subunit alpha, and fibroblast growth factor 16, which were considered clinically significant pro-inflammatory mediators. GO and KEGG enrichment analyses revealed unequal integrities among the three neurodevelopmental diseases, and we failed to identify a shared pathway linking autoimmune diseases and neurodevelopmental disorders. TWAS analysis indicated that CHRNA5 potentially mediates inflammatory activities in schizophrenia.According to our data, we failed to identify an association between autoimmune diseases and neurodevelopmental disorders. However, we demonstrated that some pro-inflammatory factors are involved in neurodevelopmental disorders.© 2025. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 39632143 is a review article
Periodontal regenerative therapy using recombinant human fibroblast growth factor-2 (rhFGF-2) combined with deproteinized bovine bone mineral (DBBM) has demonstrated favorable and predictable clinical outcomes for intrabony defects. However, long-term outcomes and potential challenges following such combination therapies remain poorly documented.A 40-year-old woman with generalized stage III grade C periodontitis underwent periodontal regenerative therapy using rhFGF-2 combined with DBBM for a one-wall defect at the mandibular left first molar (#19).Favorable periodontal healing was maintained for approximately 4 years. However, for tooth #19, the probing depth gradually increased at 5 years 2 months post-surgery, and the patient developed discomfort and pulpal symptoms by 6 years 2 months. Clinical examination revealed an agglomerate of DBBM particles and a palpable external root resorption lesion. The tooth was extracted due to irreversible pulpal involvement.This case illustrates that despite favorable early healing, periodontal regenerative therapy may lead to rare late-onset complications such as external root resorption. Long-term follow-up and careful consideration of biomaterial interactions are essential when employing combination regenerative approaches.Periodontal regenerative therapy using rhFGF-2 and DBBM achieved favorable clinical outcomes for 4 years before unexpected late-onset external root resorption developed. Long-term persistence and partial separation of DBBM particles, along with the response of macrophage- or osteoclast-lineage cells, are associated with a potential for delayed resorptive pathology on adjacent root surfaces. Clinicians should recognize the possibility of late complications and carefully consider biomaterial interactions when selecting regenerative strategies and informing patients.© 2026 American Academy of Periodontology.
Considering the increasing prevalence of pulmonary fibrosis (PF) and the increased exposure to risk factors contributing to its development, this study utilizes the bleomycin (BLM)-induced PF model to explore the potential early therapeutic strategies displayed by the bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMMSCs) and their derived exosomes. The research assessed the efficacy of two administration methods: injection and inhalation by employing a comprehensive evaluation approach, including computed tomography imaging, biochemical assays, molecular analysis, and histopathological examinations. Fifty Wistar rats were divided into 5 groups; the CON group received saline intratracheally (IT) and served as the control group, the BLM group received IT BLM (5 mg/kg), the BMMSCs group received (BLM + BMMSCs in a dose of 106 cells per rat, I/P), the Exo-INJ group received (BLM + BMMSCs-derived exosomes 100 µg per rat I/P), and the Exo-INH group received (BLM + BMMSCs-derived exosomes 100 µg by inhalation). The oxidative status indicators, glutathione (GSH), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), malondialdehyde (MDA), and the level of surfactant protein D (SP-D), a biomarker of lung damage, were evaluated. Furthermore, the level of genetic expression of inflammatory cytokines interleukin-10 (Il10), interleukin-1 beta (Il1b), pro-fibrotic and apoptotic markers, such as transforming growth factor-beta (Tgfb), Bcl-2-Associated X Protein (Bax), and fibroblast growth factor 2 (Fgf2), which functions as a growth factor to protect lung epithelial damage, were determined. Both BMMSCs and their derived exosomes exhibited antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and regenerative properties and have early therapeutic effects against PF, underlining them as promising antifibrotic candidates. In addition, the inhalation approach demonstrated superior performance in a specific metric while yielding comparable results in another. Consequently, it cannot be regarded as the optimal strategy across all evaluation criteria. Therefore, more studies are required to substantiate its applicability and explore the potential improvement that could enhance its overall efficacy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Complexes of paracrine signals and synthesized, sulfated oligosaccharides regulate expansion and/or differentiation of human epithelial-mesenchymal cell-cell partners with lineage-stage-specific distinctions exemplified in mature hepatocytes versus organoids of stem cells. Of a bank of 53 synthesized heparan sulfate-(HS)-oligosaccharides, 28 formed triggering complexes with selected paracrine signals. Of these, the 12-mer oligosaccharides proved representative for the biological effects of a specific chain chemistry. Optimized conditions for responses to complexes are:(1) A trigger consisting of a paracrine signal bound tightly to a sulfated oligosaccharide; (2) Biologically active sulfated oligosaccharides are of minimum size of 10-12-mers and with ones up to 18-mers giving similar but enhanced responses; (3) Full cell polarization. Responses are not observed at all or not observed fully in cells in two-dimensional formats even when on complex matrix substrata; (4) Epithelial-mesenchymal cell-cell signaling; (5) Serum-free, wholly defined medium tailored to the cells' maturational lineage stage; (6) Responses are predictable by a tell, the ability of a complex to trigger significant changes in sizes of cell nuclei within ∼18 hours. The complexes offer nuanced regulatory controls of growth and differentiation of organs and tissues. Representative triggering complexes [HS-oligosaccharide + paracrine signal] include ones regulating: Self-renewal: fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF2) bound to an HS-oligosaccharide containing [NS2S] or WNT3A bound to [NS2S6S3S]. Hypertrophy: vascular epithelial growth factor-A (VEGF-A) bound to an HS-oligosaccharidecontaining [NS2S6S3S or NS2S6S]. Expansion in parallel with differentiation: various complexes with a paracrine signal and an oligosaccharide containing [NS2S6S3S]; representative paracrine signals include FGF2, hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), and others. Newly prepared, synthesized chondroitin sulfate-(CS)-oligosaccharides also form triggering complexes with biological responses requiring similar conditions as those for HS-oligosaccharides. Ongoing research efforts are surveying the specific biological responses to particular complexes of CS-oligosaccharides and paracrine signals.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
A prior report demonstrated that intervertebral disc disease (IVDD) risk varies in dachshunds by size-coat type, suggesting that coat and size genes affect IVDD risk. The furnishings (wire) coat gene, R-spondin-2, affects disc health in dogs, making such a role plausible.Identify differences in spinal health metrics (SHMs): by coat type, within a coat type by size, and by size-coat type.Dachshunds (n = 4295) with known SHMs.Retrospective study reporting SHMs by coat and size type in dachshund populations in the United Kingdom (UK), Norway, and Denmark. For the UK population, a binary logistic regression was fitted with owner-reported disc disease status (yes vs no) as the outcome variable. For Denmark and Norway, populations were analyzed using proportional-odds ordinal logistic regression models, with calcification number (KN) groups (K0, K1/2, K3/4, and K5+) as the ordinal outcome.In all 3 populations, smooth coat was associated with worse SHMs compared with other coat types (eg, Norway vs long; odds ratio [OR], 2.11; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.58-2.83; overall OR range, 1.81-2.59). Within a coat type, size was inconsistently associated with SHMs. In 12 of 15 comparisons, small smooth dachshunds had worse SHMs compared with other size-coat types (eg, Norway vs standard long; OR, 3.56; 95% CI, 2.19-5.79; range, 1.80-5.40).Dachshund spinal health varies by coat and inconsistently by size type. Coat and size genes may be factors that determine IVDD risk in dachshunds.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American College of Veterinary Internal Medicine.
A cell line from Korean rockfish, Sebastes schlegelii muscle was successfully established and characterized. Primary cultures were initiated by enzymatic digestion and maintained in Leibovitz-15 (L-15) medium supplemented with 20% fetal bovine serum (FBS). The cells were continuously sub-cultured and maintained in L-15 with 10% FBS, 10 ng/mL fibroblast growth factor-2 (bFGF), and 1% antibiotics (penicillin/streptomycin and antibiotic/antimycotic solution) for more than 60 passages over 10 months, and named Korean rockfish muscle Sebastes schlegelii-1 (KRMSS-1) cell line. Under experimental conditions, best growth was achieved at 24 °C with 20% FBS concentration and 10 ng/mL bFGF addition. Cryopreservation using 5% dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) resulted in an 85-90% recovery rate after three months of freezing. Amplification of a CO1 fragment of the expected size provided supporting evidence for the rockfish origin of the KRMSS-1 cell line. Myogenic capacity was checked following serum reduction to 2% horse serum, resulting in myocyte alignment and cell fusion. During progression of the differentiation process, myosin heavy chain (MyHC) immunofluorescence staining revealed positive fluorescence distributed along elongated and enlarged cytoplasmic regions, indicating myogenic capacity. Differentiation success was further confirmed by increased protein expression of myogenin, desmin, and MyHC. Activation of intracellular PI3K/Akt/mTor and MEK/ERK pathways suggest a potential association between pathway activation and the differentiation process. Lastly, an increased proportion of cells in the G0/G1 phase at day 3 post-induction confirmed cell-cycle withdrawal. Collectively, this study established a new teleost muscle cell line with myogenic potential, providing a new model for muscle cell physiology research and for future aquaculture biotechnology applications.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Background/Objectives: Silicosis is a progressive occupational lung disease characterized by persistent inflammation and irreversible pulmonary fibrosis. Reliable circulating biomarkers for the early detection of fibrotic remodeling and monitoring of disease progression remain limited. Prolidase, a key enzyme involved in collagen turnover and extracellular matrix remodeling, has emerged as a potential biomarker in fibrotic disorders. Therefore, this study aimed to evaluate the potential role of serum prolidase as a biomarker for fibrotic remodeling and treatment monitoring in an experimental rat model of silicosis. Methods: Male Wistar rats were divided into three groups: control, silicosis, and silicosis plus nintedanib. Silicosis was induced by intratracheal crystalline silica instillation. Nintedanib was administered by gastric gavage at 50 mg/kg/day from day 10 to day 30. Lung tissues were evaluated histopathologically using hematoxylin and eosin and Masson's trichrome staining. Serum prolidase, fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2), platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), and transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) levels were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Results: Histopathological injury scores were significantly increased in the silicosis group and were attenuated by nintedanib treatment. Serum prolidase levels were significantly higher in both silica-exposed groups than in controls (p = 0.017), but did not differ significantly between untreated and nintedanib-treated animals. TGF-β, FGF-2, and PDGF levels were also significantly elevated following silica exposure. Serum prolidase showed a strong positive correlation with TGF-β (r = 0.69, p < 0.001). ROC analysis demonstrated good diagnostic performance for prolidase (AUC = 0.877), while the combined Prolidase + TGF-β model further improved discrimination (AUC = 0.969). The internally validated multivariable biomarker panel maintained high diagnostic accuracy after leave-one-out cross-validation (LOOCV) (AUC = 0.892). Conclusions: Serum prolidase may serve as a potential circulating biomarker of silica-associated fibrotic remodeling. Although nintedanib improved histopathological lung injury, persistently elevated prolidase levels suggest ongoing extracellular matrix remodeling rather than short-term treatment response. Further longitudinal experimental and clinical studies are warranted to validate its diagnostic and prognostic utility.
Most drugs target proteins, and proteome-wide genetic analyses in diverse populations could discover potential novel and repurposed targets for improved prevention and treatment of ischemic heart disease (IHD) beyond statin therapy.The purposes of this study were to use cis-acting single nucleotide polymorphisms (cis-pQTLs) identified for plasma proteins in East Asians and Europeans to discover and validate potential drug targets for IHD.We measured plasma levels of 9,520 (Olink/SomaScan: 2,923/7,297) proteins in a case-cohort study of IHD (1,976 incident cases and 2,001 subcohort controls) in statin-free individuals in the prospective China Kadoorie Biobank (CKB). Genome-wide association studies identified 2,895 (Olink/SomaScan: 1,301/1,594) cis-pQTLs for these proteins in CKB. Two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) and colocalization analyses assessed associations of all available cis-pQTLs for these proteins with IHD in East Asians (n = 29,319 cases), with further replication in Europeans (n = 181,522 cases) and comparison with findings in previous MR studies.In CKB observational analyses, a total of 959 (Olink/SomaScan: 426/533) proteins were associated at false discovery rate-corrected P < 0.05 with IHD after adjusting for major IHD risk factors. Two-sample MR analyses provided genetic support for 54 unique (Olink/SomaScan: 36/28) proteins in IHD etiology. Colocalization analyses confirmed shared gene-protein-IHD associations (posterior probability of hypothesis 4 [PPH4] ≥0.8) for 15 unique (Olink/SomaScan: 10/10) proteins, including 8 lipid-related, 3 inflammation-related, 1 blood pressure-related, and 3 alcohol-related proteins in East Asians. In Europeans, MR analyses of 12 non-alcohol-related proteins showed directionally concordant results for 8 proteins, with 5 having strong colocalization evidence of shared gene-protein-IHD associations (PPH4 ≥0.8), including 4 lipid-related (proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9, LPA, APOE, cadherin-1) and 1 systolic blood pressure-related (fibroblast growth factor 5) protein. However, 4 proteins showed directionally discordant MR results, including 2 lipid-related (APOA5, SORT1) and 1 inflammation-related (transforming growth factor beta 1) proteins with strong colocalization evidence of shared gene-protein-IHD associations (PPH4 ≥0.8). Comparison with previous MR studies revealed little consistency across studies in the number and identity of target proteins for IHD beyond well-established lipid-related (low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, lipoprotein(a), and triglycerides) or inflammation-related (interleukin-6) protein targets.The findings support a role for lipid-driven chronic inflammation in IHD etiology, and treatment strategies simultaneously targeting multiple lipid and inflammation pathways should be prioritized for further research to improve drug treatment of IHD beyond statin therapy.Copyright © 2026 American College of Cardiology Foundation. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (FGFR1) amplification is associated with endocrine therapy resistance and a poor prognosis in hormone receptor-positive breast cancer. However, effective therapeutic options for FGFR1 amplification remain limited. We report a patient with metastatic breast cancer who was treated with pazopanib for FGFR1 amplification in the BELIEVE trial.A 71-year-old woman was diagnosed with bilateral luminal-HER2 type breast cancer (pT2N1M0) 18 years previously, and underwent bilateral mastectomy and axillary lymph nodes dissection followed by adjuvant therapy. She had no family history. She developed bone and liver metastases 4 years after the operation and her condition became worse, despite multiple lines of endocrine and cytotoxic therapies. She was treated with pazopanib under the trial because comprehensive genomic profiling showed FGFR1 amplification. After 3 months, computed tomography demonstrated necrosis and shrinkage of liver metastases, consistent with a partial response. Serum tumor markers (CEA and CA15-3) showed a sustained decline, reaching their lowest levels at approximately 5 months, consistent with radiologic response. Treatment was continued for 8 months until tumor markers increased and imaging revealed disease progression. Adverse events were manageable.Pazopanib is likely to have a clinical benefit for patients with FGFR1-amplified breast cancer using genomic profiling in personalized oncology at the early stage of metastasis.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a chronic vascular disorder characterized by progressive aortic dilation and extracellular matrix remodeling, for which effective pharmacological therapies remain limited. Fibroblast growth factor 7 (FGF7), a paracrine growth factor involved in tissue repair and remodeling, has not been fully investigated in AAA. Transcriptomic analyses of GSE239620 and GSE57691 revealed dysregulated FGF7 expression in aneurysmal tissues, with predominant localization in fibroblasts. In an Ang II-induced AAA model in Apoe⁻/⁻ mice, AAV-mediated FGF7 overexpression showed a trend toward improved survival, reduced AAA incidence, limited maximal aortic dilation, and attenuated collagen deposition and inflammatory cytokine production in vivo. In vitro, Ang II stimulation increased FGF7 expression in NIH/3T3 fibroblasts. Recombinant FGF7 suppressed Ang II-induced upregulation of Collagen I, α-SMA, MMP-2, and MMP-9. Mechanistically, Ang II activated PI3K/AKT signaling, whereas FGF7 further enhanced PI3K and AKT phosphorylation. Pharmacological inhibition of PI3K partially abolished the regulatory effects of FGF7 on fibroblast remodeling and inflammatory activation. Collectively, FGF7 mitigates AAA progression through modulation of fibroblast-mediated extracellular matrix remodeling and PI3K/AKT signaling, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target for AAA.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (FGFR1) is frequently overexpressed in breast cancer (BC), yet the mechanisms governing its protein stabilization remain unclear. This study investigates the role of neddylation, a ubiquitin-like modification, in sustaining FGFR1 levels and driving malignant progression in BC.The interaction between FGFR1 and the neddylation pathway was explored using clinical databases and experimental models. After characterizing FGFR1 neddylation via immunofluorescence and co-immunoprecipitation, we examined protein stability and signaling pathways following pharmacological (MLN4924) or genetic (NAE1 knockdown) neddylation inhibition. The therapeutic relevance was tested in BC cell lines and xenograft models, with its prognostic significance determined via bioinformatic tools.Elevated FGFR1 significantly correlated with lymph node metastasis and reduced survival in patients. Core neddylation components, NAE1 and NEDD8, were upregulated in multiple breast cancer cell lines and essential for sustaining FGFR1 protein stability. Inhibiting neddylation induced FGFR1 degradation via the ubiquitin-proteasome system without altering mRNA levels. We identified a synergistic relationship between neddylation and FGFR1 phosphorylation that coordinately enhanced FGFR1 stabilization, activated downstream mTOR signaling, and suppressed Bax. Functionally, MLN4924 inhibited BC cell proliferation and migration, effects rescued by recombinant human FGF2 (rhFGF2) addition. In vivo, MLN4924 effectively suppressed tumor growth and reduced FGFR1/p-mTOR levels, mimicking the efficacy of the FGFR inhibitor Erdafitinib. Clinically, co-expression of FGFR1, NAE1, and NEDD8 predicted poor patient outcomes.These findings implicate the neddylation-FGFR1 axis as a critical oncogenic pathway in BC. Targeting this pathway represents a promising therapeutic strategy for patients with aberrant FGFR1 expression.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Circular RNAs (circRNAs) have emerged as important regulators of tumor progression; however, their roles in papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) remain incompletely understood. In this study, we investigated the expression, biological function, and molecular mechanism of circGABRB2_006 in PTC. CircGABRB2_006 was significantly upregulated in PTC tissues and cell lines and was associated with aggressive clinicopathological characteristics, including increased tumor number, larger tumor size, advanced TNM stage, and lymph node metastasis. Functional assays demonstrated that circGABRB2_006 promoted PTC cell proliferation, migration, invasion, epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), tumor growth, and pulmonary metastasis, whereas its silencing exerted the opposite effects. Mechanistically, circGABRB2_006 predominantly localized in the cytoplasm and acted as a molecular sponge for miR-296-5p, thereby relieving miR-296-5p-mediated repression of fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (FGFR1). Rescue experiments further confirmed that the oncogenic effects of circGABRB2_006 were largely dependent on the miR-296-5p/FGFR1 axis. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that circGABRB2_006 drives malignant progression of PTC through the miR-296-5p/FGFR1 signaling axis, highlighting its potential as a biomarker and therapeutic target in PTC.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Opioid use disorder (OUD) remains a critical global health challenge. The nucleus accumbens (NAc), a key region of the brain reward system, plays an essential role in opioid-induced neuroadaptations. Characterizing gene expression alterations in reward-system regions, such as the NAc, is essential for elucidating the molecular mechanisms underlying addiction. In recent years, bioinformatics has emerged as a rapidly advancing field and has played a pivotal role in elucidating molecular mechanisms and in advancing computational biology.This study aimed to characterize transcriptomic changes in the NAc of mice following chronic morphine administration using RNA sequencing and bioinformatic analysis.RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) data from morphine- and saline-treated mice were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus database via the Sequence Read Archive. Following quality control and alignment, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified using the DESeq2 package in R. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses, as well as protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analyses, were performed to evaluate the functional implications of these genes.Principal component analysis (PCA) revealed distinct transcriptomic profiles between the morphine and control groups. A total of 143 DEGs were identified, including 125 up-regulated and 18 down-regulated genes. Enrichment analyses indicated significant involvement in synaptic signaling, ion transport, and neurodegenerative pathways. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis identified several hub genes, including fgf3 (fibroblast growth factor 3), mki67 (marker of proliferation Ki-67), grin2a/grin2b (glutamate receptor NMDA subunits 2A/2B), gli1 (GLI family zinc finger 1), and ago2 (argonaute RISC catalytic component 2), which are associated with synaptic plasticity, neurogenesis, and epigenetic regulation.Chronic morphine exposure induces widespread gene expression changes in the NAc, engaging pathways associated with synaptic remodeling, neuronal excitability, and addiction-related neuroplasticity. These findings provide a molecular framework for understanding opioid-induced adaptations and identify candidate targets, including N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunits, fgf3, and ago2, for potential therapeutic intervention. Future studies should functionally validate these targets and evaluate their translational relevance in the context of OUD.Copyright © 2026, Pourmand et al.
The progression and metastasis of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC), the most common type of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), are driven by complex molecular mechanisms, including proliferative signaling pathways such as KRAS signaling and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Despite advances in cancer research, the dual challenge of suppressing both proliferation and metastasis of OSCC cells remains unresolved. As a poor prognostic factor in HNSCC, we recently identified the keratin-associated protein 2-3 (KRTAP2-3), which induces EMT and metastasis of OSCC cells. However, its involvement in OSCC progression has not yet been fully elucidated. In the present study, we aimed to examine the roles of endogenous KRTAP2-3 in the proliferation and tumor formation of OSCC cells. Using multiple OSCC cell lines, we demonstrated that downregulation of KRTAP2-3 not only induced mesenchymal-epithelial transition (MET) but also reduced cell proliferation. Furthermore, RNA sequencing analyses of OSCC cells and HNSCC tumor tissues revealed that KRTAP2-3 downregulation suppressed KRAS signaling accompanied by decreased expressions of fibroblast growth factor-5 (FGF-5) and Fos-like antigen 1 (FOSL1), poor prognostic factors in HNSCC. Knockdown of either FGF-5 or FOSL1 significantly reduced OSCC cell proliferation, highlighting their critical roles in KRTAP2-3-mediated tumor progression. Furthermore, downregulation of KRTAP2-3 significantly suppressed tumor formation of OSCC cells. These findings suggest that KRTAP2-3 promotes OSCC progression by maintaining mesenchymal and proliferative traits via pathways related to FGF-5, FOSL1, and KRAS signaling. Targeting the KRTAP2-3 may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for OSCC, addressing the dual challenge of suppressing both proliferation and metastasis.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
We aimed to evaluate the suitability of archival ureteroscopic (URS) biopsy specimens for fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3) biomarker analysis in upper urinary tract urothelial carcinoma. Thirty-six patients with upper urinary tract urothelial carcinoma who underwent diagnostic URS and radical nephroureterectomy (RNU) were included. Among the 36 RNU-derived tissue specimens, 33 (92%) yielded valid FGFR3 RNA test results; the remaining three (8.3%) showed test failure because of undetectable amplification by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Of the 33 RNU specimens with valid amplification, eight (24%) had FGFR3 alterations. Of these eight specimens, two (25%) were valid for FGFR3 RNA testing; one showed positive concordance with the paired RNU specimen, whereas the other did not. The remaining six specimens (75%) showed test failure. Correlation analysis of FGFR3 immunohistochemical staining scores demonstrated a moderate positive correlation between RNU and paired URS specimens (Spearman's ρ = 0.47, P = 0.004). Our findings indicate that URS biopsy specimens are unsuitable for FGFR3 RNA testing but may be useful for protein-based biomarker analysis when RNU specimens are unavailable.© The Author(s) 2026.
The t(4;14) translocation is a high-risk cytogenetic abnormality in multiple myeloma (MM) that results in overexpression of fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3) and enhanced MM proliferation, leading to poor prognosis. Herein, we carried out a high-throughput screen on 1855 Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved pharmaceuticals and identified all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), which alone has no anti-MM effect, as a potent drug that enhances the cytotoxic effects of immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) in t(4;14) MM cells. Mechanistically, ATRA activates retinoic acid receptor β (RARβ), which then binds to retinoic acid response elements in the FGFR3 promoter. IMiDs enhanced nuclear translocation of histone deacetylase (HDAC)-5 and 3 by reducing HDAC5 Ser498 phosphorylation levels. RARβ, HDAC5 and HDAC3 formed a co-repressor complex that reduced chromatin accessibility and H3K27 acetylation in FGFR3 promoter, FGFR3 expression, and suppressed phosphoinositide 3-kinase/AKT signaling pathways, leading to more MM cell death. Similarly, CD2314, a selective RARβ agonist, sensitized and resensitized t(4;14) MM cells to IMiDs in vitro and in vivo. Thus, these findings underscore the therapeutic potential of ATRA and RARβ agonists in enhancing the efficacy of IMiD-based treatments for t(4;14) MM and offer a promising strategy to overcome IMiD resistance and improve outcomes in this high-risk subgroup.© 2026. The Author(s).
Fibroblast growth factor receptor 4 (FGFR4) is a tyrosine kinase involved in cell growth, proliferation, and angiogenesis. While FGFR1-3 are well studied in cancer, FGFR4 remains relatively understudied, and the distribution of its mutations across cancers and patient populations is not well defined.A retrospective pan-cancer analysis was performed using the AACR Project GENIE v12 database via cBioPortal. Tumors with somatic FGFR4 mutations were included, excluding copy number alterations and structural variants. Mutations were grouped by hotspot (amino acid 401) and major protein domains. Comparative analyses assessed cancer type distribution, demographics, mutation burden, and co-occurring genomic alterations using chi-square testing with multiple comparison correction.A total of 4565 tumor samples (4283 patients) were analyzed. FGFR4 alterations were observed across diverse malignancies, most commonly non-small cell lung cancer, colorectal cancer, and melanoma. Mutations clustered primarily in the tyrosine kinase and immunoglobulin I-set domains, with no significant variation in distribution across cancer types. Sex was not associated with the mutation group, while race and ethnicity showed significant differences. The FGFR4 hotspot 401 group demonstrated a higher mutation burden, driven by a subset of hypermutated tumors, and showed enrichment for co-occurring alterations in chromatin remodeling, DNA repair, tumor suppressor, and receptor tyrosine kinase genes; however, sensitivity analyses indicated this association was largely attributable to mutation burden rather than a mutation-specific effect. Domain-based mutation groups had lower mutation burdens and fewer co-alterations.FGFR4 alterations occur across a broad range of cancers with consistent domain-level patterns. The hotspot 401 mutation shows a higher mutation burden and co-alteration frequency driven largely by a subset of hypermutated tumors, rather than acting as an isolated driver.
Hallux valgus (HV) is a common foot deformity influenced by genetic, pathological, and traumatic factors, yet its relationship with serum metabolites (SMs) remains unclear. This study employed two-sample Mendelian randomization (SMR) to investigate causal associations between 1400 SMs and HV, identifying Cysteine and Glycochenodeoxycholate 3-sulfate as negatively correlated with HV occurrence, with no significant reverse causal effect from HV on their levels. Focusing on Cysteine, 548 target genes were predicted from four databases (DrugBank, SuperPred, Genecards, and SwissTargetPrediction) and 793 HV-related genes were retrieved from Genecards, yielding 47 overlapping genes. KEGG enrichment analysis revealed that these intersecting genes were involved in pathways such as cellular senescence and the AGE-RAGE signaling pathway in diabetic complications. Among them, fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) showed a positive causal relationship with Cysteine and a negative causal relationship with HV, which was validated in patient samples showing significantly lower serum Cysteine levels and bone tissue FGFR2 expression in the HV group compared to non-HV controls (p < 0.001). Additionally, Isogranulatimide was identified as a marine-derived active compound targeting FGFR2, with molecular docking and dynamic simulations confirming favorable binding activity. These findings suggest that Cysteine may play a protective role in the development and progression of HV, with FGFR2 serving as a key mediating target that could reduce HV risk both indirectly through elevated Cysteine levels and directly through its own regulation, offering valuable reference for targeted diagnosis and therapy in clinical practice.© 2026 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Immunotherapy resistance presents a formidable challenge in tumor biology. While fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3) serves as a pivotal oncogenic driver in a multitude of cancers, the exploration of its role in immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) resistance remains scarce, thus impeding a deeper understanding of the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) in the era of immunotherapy. Employing patient-derived urothelial carcinoma (UC) organoids and co-cultured systems, along with single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), whole-exome sequencing (WES), bulk RNA-seq, and CUT& Tag epigenomics in UC cohorts, we identified and characterized the key downstream mediators of FGFR3. The TIME associated with FGFR3 mutations exhibited a depletion of NK and CD8+ T cells, while simultaneously harboring an accumulation of exhausted effectors, correlating with diminished ICI response. Erdafitinib reprogrammed this "cold" TME into an inflamed state through a novel FGFR3-STAT5-IRF2 signaling cascade. These findings, corroborated by a wealth of evidence, advocate for the combination of FGFR3-targeted therapy with immunotherapy for UC, bridging critical pre-clinical and clinical insights.© 2026 The Author(s). iMeta published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of iMeta Science.
Patients with gastric cancer (GC) harboring fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) amplification showed significantly worse survival, compared with patients with FGFR2-unamplified GC. Although various targeted drugs have been developed, previous studies have shown that their efficacy remains suboptimal in most patients within this subgroup. We retrospectively present two cases of FGFR2-amplified advanced GC treated with FGFR inhibitors. Case 1 was a 52-year-old female diagnosed with stage IVB (cTxN+M1, bone and lymph node metastases, HER2-negative, CPS = 2) poorly differentiated signet-ring cell carcinoma, harboring high-level FGFR2 amplification (gene copy number=24.7). Due to extensive bone metastases resulting in severe anemia, pain, and limited mobility (performance status 3), the patient was intolerant to chemotherapy and immunotherapy. In the first-line setting, she received pemigatinib, achieving a progression-free survival (PFS) of 4.4 months and an overall survival (OS) of 8.3 months, accompanied by a significant decrease in tumor markers and rapid clinical symptom improvement. Case 2 was a 61-year-old female diagnosed with stage IVB (cT4bN+M1, liver and lymph node metastases, HER2-negative, CPS = 5) poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma. In the third-line setting, she received infigratinib, attaining a PFS of 5.7 months and an OS of 18.5 months. Both patients experienced predictable and manageable FGFR inhibitor-related adverse events (e.g., keratitis, onychotoxicity, hyperphosphatemia). This case series offers hypothesis-generating observations suggesting potential activity of FGFR inhibitors (such as pemigatinib and infigratinib) in patients with FGFR2-amplified advanced gastric cancer who have limited conventional therapeutic options or are intolerant to chemotherapy, highlighting the importance of next-generation sequencing-guided precision therapy.Copyright © 2026 Li, Qian, Xu and Nie.
Poor tendon-bone healing is a major challenge after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). TFRD, the total flavonoids of Rhizoma Drynariae, has pharmacological effects in promoting bone formation, but it remains less understood whether it accelerates tendon-bone healing by regulating the osteogenic differentiation of tendon-derived stem cells (TDSCs). TDSCs were isolated from the Achilles tendons of rats and characterized for their stem cell properties through flow cytometry and multilineage differentiation assays. The effects of TFRD on TDSC proliferation, migration, and osteogenic differentiation were evaluated using the cell counting kit-8 assay, scratch wound healing assays, Alizarin Red S staining, and Western blot analysis. Gene and protein expression levels associated with the transforming growth factor-β/bone morphogenetic protein (TGF-β/BMP) signaling pathway were assessed by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Western blot. A rat ACLR model was created and divided into four experimental groups: Sham, ACLR, TFRD, and TFRD + Noggin. Tendon-bone healing was analyzed using hematoxylin and eosin staining, Masson's trichrome staining, bone mineral density measurements, and immunohistochemistry. Noggin was used to inhibit BMP signaling for pathway validation. TFRD (50-100 μg/mL) significantly enhanced the proliferation, migration, and osteogenic differentiation of TDSCs, and increased the expression of key osteogenic markers, including runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP). Mechanistically, TFRD activated the TGF-β/BMP signaling pathway, leading to elevated levels of TGF-β1, BMP-2, and phosphorylated Smad1/5/8. Moreover, TGF-β1 extended the duration of BMP-2 signaling and suppressed Noggin expression. The osteogenic effects of TFRD were diminished when Noggin was applied, indicating its role in modulating the BMP pathway. In vivo, TFRD significantly improved collagen fiber alignment, calcification, and bone mineral density at the tendon-bone junction, while also upregulating RUNX2 and ALP expression. TFRD promotes osteogenic differentiation of TDSCs by activating the TGF-β/BMP signaling pathway, improves tendon-bone healing after ACLR, and provides experimental support for its clinical application.© 2026. The Society for In Vitro Biology.
Patient-derived organoids (PDOs) can recapitulate selected features of original tumors and provide a useful system for studying epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) in three-dimensional culture. Nonetheless, the protocol to generate EOC-PDOs has not yet been standardized. We therefore empirically refined the culture conditions and medium composition, considering the protocol effective when EOC PDOs were successfully established in five consecutive attempts. Tissue and ascites samples (from 29 and 8 patients, respectively) were used and the Syringe-extruded Organoid Basement membrane extract Assembly (SOBA) fragment culture method applied. Selected similarities in cell morphology, marker expression, and detectable alterations between organoids and patient-matched tumor tissue were assessed using pairwise comparisons. The refined workflow used a culture medium containing recombinant human R-Spondin 1 protein (250 ng/mL), Noggin, and NRG1, factors implicated in organoid maintenance and expansion. Ultimately, 31 EOC organoid lines successfully generated from 82.8% (24/29) of tissue and 87.5% (7/8) of ascites samples. The SOBA technique increased the 10 day PDO yield by 2.75-fold relative to the surface-attached dome method (p < 0.0001). This empirically refined workflow can be adjusted for specific experimental applications; however, further validation across larger and clinically diverse EOC cohorts is required.© 2026. The Author(s).
Demineralized bone matrix (DBM) is widely used as an alternative to autografts for repairing bone defects, but its clinical efficacy is limited by poor retention at the defect site and inadequate osteogenic capacity. Here, we developed a multifunctional carrier system aimed at improving the capacity of DBM by utilizing nanoclay-based self-assembly along with cell-derived exosome mimetics (EMs). EMs were derived from mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) osteogenically induced in spheroids and were functionalized with bisphosphonates (BP) to assemble a stable gel network with laponite nanoclays via BP-nanoclay edge interactions. The resulting self-assembled nanoclay gel exhibited excellent injectability, moldability, and self-healing properties, even when loaded with a high concentration of DBM, and supported MSC osteogenic differentiation. We further enhanced the potency of DBM-mediated osteogenesis and bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling in the nanoclay gel by incorporating BP-functionalized EMs (EM-BPs) loaded with miR-200c that can target BMP antagonist noggin. Lastly, we validated the bone regeneration efficacy of DBM-loaded nanoclay gels in comparison to commercially available DBM putties using a mouse calvarial defect model. This approach presents a versatile nanoclay gel carrier platform that overcomes the limitations of current DBM formulations and provides a promising strategy for improved bone repair.
This study adopted an integrated strategy combining serum transitional component screening, network pharmacology prediction, and animal experiment verification to systematically explore the core active components and mechanism of action of Yinxing Yangnao Formula(YYF) in the treatment of vascular dementia(VD), aiming to provide solid experimental evidence for the modernization of this classical TCM prescription. With the use of ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-Orbitrap high-resolution mass spectrometry(UPLC-Orbitrap-HRMS), a total of 97 chemical components were identified from the YYF extract by combining accurate mass-to-charge ratio, characteristic fragmentation ions of MS/MS, comparison with reference standards, and matching with literature databases. Furthermore, 27 serum transitional components were captured through the analysis of YYF-containing serum from rats, which were inferred as the key material basis for the in vivo pharmacodynamic effects of YYF. The potential targets of the serum transitional components were predicted using the SwissTargetPrediction database, and VD-related disease targets were screened from authoritative databases including GeneCard, OMIM, and GEO with the keyword dementia vascular. A total of 275 common targets were obtained with the Jvenn online tool. The &quot;drug-component-target-disease&quot; network was constructed using Cytoscape 3.9.1 software, and core active components such as isoscopoletin, jaceosidin, catalpol, senkyunolide F, and bilobalide were screened out. The protein-protein interaction(PPI) network was constructed via the STRING database, identifying key regulatory targets including the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase family, sarcoma, protein tyrosine phosphatase, non-receptor type 11, Janus kinase 2, and protein tyrosine kinase 2. Gene Ontology(GO) functional enrichment and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) pathway analysis revealed that the core targets were mainly enriched in biological processes such as oxidative stress, neurological function, and immune and inflammatory responses, involving phosphoinositide 3-kinase-protein kinase B(PI3K-Akt), mitogen-activated protein kinase(MAPK), and Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription 3(JAK-STAT3) signaling pathways. Molecular docking results showed that bilobalide had a good binding effect with core targets. Verification experiments on VD rat models demonstrated that YYF might exert the therapeutic effect by alleviating oxidative stress through modulating the serum levels of superoxide dismutase(SOD), glutathione peroxidase(GSH-Px), and malondialdehyde(MDA). This study preliminarily clarified the material basis, pharmacological effects, and underlying mechanism of YYF in the treatment of VD, providing a direction and basis for subsequent research on the complete regulatory chain of &quot;drug-target-pathway-phenotype&quot;.
The intestinal porcine epithelial cell line (IPEC-J2) is a nontransformed jejunal model derived from unsuckled piglets. It is increasingly used in gut physiology research, yet its application to nutrient absorption remains underexplored. Four media types were assessed for their ability to support IPEC-J2 barrier maturation and permeability: Dulbecco's modified Eagle medium/Ham's F-12 with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS10), 10% porcine serum (PS10), 5% porcine serum (PS5) supplemented with Wnt3a-R-spondin-Noggin conditioned medium (PS5+L-WRN), and PS5 with epidermal growth factor and insulin-transferrin-selenium (PS5+EGF+ITS). Culture medium influenced epithelial phenotype, with more than a 30-fold range in transepithelial electrical resistance (TEER), which plateaued by day 12. PS10 supported a balanced profile, characterized by intermediate TEER (2395.00 ± 485.51 Ω × cm2), lowest lactulose and mannitol permeability (p < 0.05), high lactate dehydrogenase activity (p < 0.05 vs. PS5+L-WRN and FBS10), enhanced membrane localization of tight junction proteins (p < 0.05 vs. PS5+EGF+ITS), and reduced fibroblast marker S100A4 (p < 0.05 vs. PS5+EGF+ITS). Treatment with digested infant milk formula did not compromise barrier integrity in PS10-cultured IPEC-J2 monolayers and enabled transport of free amino acids to the basolateral compartment. These findings support IPEC-J2 as an alternative to Caco-2 cells for applications in infant nutrition research in vitro.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Nutrition & Food Research published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Although fibroblast growth factor 8 (FGF8) is a critical regulator of skeletal morphogenesis in vertebrates, its specific role in the formation and development of intermuscular bones (IBs) in teleost fish remains insufficiently characterized. In this study, we generated double mutants (fgf8a+/- + fgf8b+/-) in diploid Chongming crucian carp (Carassius auratus) using CRISPR/Cas9-mediated gene editing. Compared to wild-type fish, the double mutants exhibited significantly reduced IB number (p < 0.01), demonstrating a synergistic role of fgf8a and fgf8b in IB formation. Notably, reduced number of IBs did not compromise overall growth, muscle architecture, or reproductive performance. Integrated transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses revealed that the reduced IB phenotype was linked to modifications in relevant signaling pathways and a concomitant upregulation of metabolites beneficial for muscle quality and health. Our findings highlight the crucial role of fgf8 in regulating IB formation and development in crucian carp, providing insights into the genetic mechanisms underlying this process in teleosts.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Retinoic acid, acting through RAR/RXR nuclear receptors, is required for neuronal differentiation in Xenopus laevis. Bexarotene, characterised as a pan-RXR agonist, reduces the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease in mouse models by clearing amyloid plaque and by promoting neurogenesis. In this paper, we show that RXR-initiated bexarotene signalling generates additional neurons both during normal X. laevis development and in ectodermal explants in which bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signalling is inhibited. Differential gene expression analysis between ectodermal explants taken from uninjected embryos and from embryos co-injected with mRNA that expresses Noggin, a BMP antagonist, and RXRβ identifies genes mediating the transition from an epidermal to a neural fate. The explants express genes associated with an anterior neural fate, but not a neuronal fate. The addition of bexarotene to equivalent co-injected explants activates genes that promote neuronal differentiation and posterior character, including genes of the canonical Wnt signalling pathway. Xenopus ectodermal explants therefore provide a simple and efficient tool to identify novel retinoid agonists that promote neuronal differentiation. The genes expressed in response to bexarotene are consistent with a pathway to neuronal differentiation allied to standard retinoid signalling.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Most rabbit embryonic stem (rbES) cell lines established in embryonic fibroblast feeder layer systems predominantly exhibit pluripotency features restricted to a "primed" state, which hinders their directed differentiation into reproductive germ cells and limits their capacity for germline transmission.We developed a novel 3C system containing IWP2, DZNep, and TSA in iFLY medium supplemented with basic fibroblast growth factor, human leukemia inhibitory factor, and Noggin. Pluripotency maintenance and germline differentiation were validated by gene expression analysis and induction with BMP4, stem cell factor, and epidermal growth factor.The 3C system efficiently maintained the pluripotency of rbES cells with stable expression of core pluripotent genes. These cells showed upregulated expression of partial naïve markers and expressed formative pluripotent markers. Moreover, 3C cultured rbES cells were successfully differentiated into primordial germ cell like cells (PGCLCs).The 3C culture system confers rbES cells with naïve pluripotency and self renewal ability, as well as strong potential for directed germ cell differentiation. This system provides a reliable stem cell platform for genetic modification and breeding in livestock.Copyright © 2026 Chen, Liu, Li, Ullah, Gao, Wang, Liu and Du.
Tripartite motif-containing 71 (TRIM71), an RNA-binding E3 ubiquitin ligase, plays essential roles in malignant progression, but its function in cervical cancer (CC) remains unclear.TRIM71 expression was assessed in CC cell lines and clinical specimens using qRT-PCR, Western blotting, and immunohistochemistry. The clinical significance of TRIM71 was evaluated through correlation analyses and survival models. Functional assays in vitro and xenograft models in vivo were used to determine the biological roles of TRIM71. RNA-sequencing, RIP-sequencing, luciferase reporter assays, actinomycin D decay assays, and co-immunoprecipitation assays were performed to elucidate underlying mechanisms.TRIM71 expression was significantly reduced in CC cell lines and tumor tissues, and its low expression correlated with aggressive clinicopathologic features and poorer survival, identifying it as an independent prognostic factor. Functionally, TRIM71 overexpression impaired CC cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and cytoskeletal remodeling, whereas TRIM71 loss enhanced these malignant behaviors. In vivo, TRIM71 suppressed tumor growth, lung metastasis, and angiogenesis. Transcriptome analysis and molecular assays showed that TRIM71 inhibited Wnt/β-catenin signaling and Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). RIP-seq revealed Nectin4 as a direct TRIM71 target. TRIM71 bound the Nectin4 3'-UTR and reduced its mRNA stability without affecting ubiquitination. Rescue experiments demonstrated that Nectin4 was essential for TRIM71-mediated repression of Wnt/β-catenin signaling, as Nectin4 restoration or pathway activation reversed TRIM71's inhibitory effects, whereas Nectin4 silencing or pathway inhibition negated the impact of TRIM71 knockout.TRIM71 may function as a tumor suppressor in CC by regulating Nectin4 expression and influencing Wnt/β-catenin signaling, EMT, tumor progression, and angiogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41993969 is a review article
Chemoresistance remains a significant barrier to the treatment of esophageal cancer (EC), regulated by metabolic and signaling adaptations. Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor-Like 1 (FGFRL1) is a key regulator of cancer progression; however, its involvement in chemoresistance remains poorly understood. This study investigates the functional significance of FGFRL1 in chemo-resistant EC cells and its association with response to chemotherapy. FGFRL1 expression was analysed in cisplatin-resistant EC cells using real-time PCR and Western blotting. FGFRL1 protein levels were examined in clinical specimens from EC patients post-neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) to evaluate their correlation with treatment response using immunohistochemistry. Significantly decreased expression of FGFRL1 was observed in cisplatin-resistant EC cells (p < 0.05). Interestingly, overexpression of FGFRL1 suppressed proliferation, migration, and clonogenic potential (p < 0.05), while activating Notch signaling via JAG1, DLL1, DLL4, NOTCH1, NOTCH2, and HES1 (p < 0.05) in cisplatin-resistant EC cells. FGFRL1 overexpression also shifted glucose metabolism toward glycogen synthesis, involving regulators GFPT2, AQP3, and GALNT5 (p < 0.05). In patient specimens, high FGFRL1 expression was significantly associated with chemotherapy response, observed in 80% of complete responders (CR)versus 36.4% of partial + non-responders (PR + NR) EC patients (p = 0.000, OR = 8.61). We report for the first time that FGFRL1 regulates metabolic and signalling pathways in chemo-resistant EC.
Cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury (CIRI) is a major cause of poor outcome after ischemic stroke, and effective therapeutic targets are lacking. This study aimed to investigate the role of polypeptide N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase 3 (GALNT3) in CIRI.The mouse transient middle cerebral artery occlusion/reperfusion (tMCAO/R) model was established, and transcriptomic analysis of the peri-infarct cortex was performed to screen target genes. In vivo experiments, neurological scoring and TTC staining were used to assess the effects of GALNT3 on brain injury. In vitro, microglial HMC3 cells subjected to oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R) were used to model CIRI and further analyze the effects of GALNT3 on macrophage polarization and inflammatory factor expression.Transcriptomic analysis of the peri-infarct cortex in the tMCAO/R model identified GALNT3 as a significantly down-regulated gene. GALNT3 overexpression reduced infarct volume, improved neurological function, and suppressed neuronal apoptosis, oxidative stress, and neuroinflammation in tMCAO/R mice. Subsequently, GALNT3 was further demonstrated to inhibit microglial M1 polarization and down-regulate inflammatory factors in the OGD/R model. Further mechanism investigation revealed that GALNT3, acting as a mucin type O glycosylation initiating enzyme, directly interacted with triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) and promoted its O GalNAc glycosylation, predominantly at serine 147, thereby enhancing TREM2 protein stability. TREM2 knockdown stimulated inflammatory responses that were inhibited by GALNT3 overexpression in OGD/R-treated microglia.This study revealed a novel GALNT3/TREM2 regulatory axis that restricts neuroinflammation and injury after CIRI, highlighting GALNT3-mediated O-glycosylation as a potential therapeutic strategy for CIRI.© 2026 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Bone mineral density (BMD) is a key indicator of osteoporosis, which may influence the development of intervertebral disc degeneration (IDD). However, the causal relationship and underlying signaling pathways between BMD and IDD remain unclear. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the potential causal relationship and underlying signaling pathways between BMD and IDD. A two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis was employed to analyze the causal effects of BMD levels across 3 anatomical sites [total body BMD (TB-BMD), lumbar spine BMD (LS-BMD), and femoral neck BMD (FN-BMD)] on risks of IDD. In this study, IDD was divided into 2 groups, namely cervical IDD (C-IDD) and thoracic/thoracolumbar/lumbosacral IDD (TTL-IDD). Additionally, multivariable MR (MVMR) was applied to explore whether type 2 diabetes (T2D) and body mass index (BMI) would mediate the identification of causal pathways. Moreover, gene ontology (GO) enrichment analysis and expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) colocalization analyses were utilized to examine the potential mechanisms and shared genes involved in osteoporosis and IDD. The results showed that genetic predispositions to TB-BMD, LS-BMD, and FN-BMD were associated with increased risk of C-IDD. Furthermore, TB-BMD, LS-BMD, and FN-BMD were identified as significant risk factors causally associated with TTL-IDD. The MVMR analysis revealed that even after adjusting for T2D and BMI, lower TB-BMD could significantly increase the odds of C-IDD and TTL-IDD. In the subgroup analysis, a significant causal effect of TB-BMD on TTL-IDD was observed in individuals aged 30 to 45, 45 to 60, and > 60 years. Polypeptide N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase 3 (GALNT3) and homeobox C4 (HOXC4) were the most prominent co-located genes illustrated by GO enrichment analysis and eQTL analysis. In conclusion, we found that lower BMD exerts significant causal effects on elevated IDD risk (both C-IDD and TTL-IDD).Copyright © 2025 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40699684 is a review article
Hyperphosphatemic familial tumoral calcinosis (HFTC) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder that generally presents in the first two decades of life with ectopic calcification throughout the body. The underlying metabolic disorder is caused by a mutation in a gene responsible for regulating fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23) activity. Loss of regulation of FGF23 results in hyperphosphatemia resulting in the characteristic tissue calcinosis deposits, especially in periarticular locations. The diagnosis is made with imaging, hyperphosphatemia, and genetic testing. Medical and surgical treatments are recommended to reduce blood phosphate and remove the masses. A 35-year-old male presented with a painful left lateral hip mass that had been gradually enlarging over the past four months. X-rays showed amorphous calcific densities in the left hip consistent with tumoral calcinosis. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) noted a stable complex mass in the left posterior hip and ischio-femoral space consistent with tumoral calcinosis. He had an elevated phosphorus level of 6.0 mg/dL (reference range 2.5 to 4.5 mg/dL). Excision of the mass was successful and genetic testing showed a pathogenic variant in polypeptide N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase 3 (GALNT3), associated with HFTC. He was treated with diet and sevelamer (phosphate binder), and discharged. This case demonstrates that the detection of the disorder can be delayed by the slow progression of clinical symptoms and tumor calcinosis over time. Ultimately, early awareness of the disease and the mechanisms responsible for the tissue damage are important to limit long-term health consequences, which can include calcifications that ulcerate and limit joint motion. As seen in this patient, the condition often requires repeated surgical interventions. Finally, this is an autosomal recessive inherited disorder, so genetic counseling is an important component of comprehensive care.Copyright © 2025, Ali et al.
Uncontrollable bleeding and tissue defects caused by trauma are significant clinical issues. Apoptotic vesicles (apoVs) derived from mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have shown promise for hemostasis and tissue regeneration, but their clinical safety and efficacy remain unverified. We investigated the procoagulant and regenerative function of lyophilized MSC-derived apoVs (MSC-apoVs) using in vitro experiments and in vivo rat models. In addition, we conducted a double-blind, randomized, self-controlled clinical trial to evaluate the safety and efficiency of lyophilized MSC-apoVs for hemostasis and bone regeneration following extraction of impacted mandibular third molars. We show that lyophilized MSC-apoVs maintain their procoagulant and regenerative functions after storage at 4°C for 3 months and upregulate tripartite motif containing 71 to activate the extracellular signal-regulated kinase signaling pathway. Furthermore, among the 43 enrolled subjects, 39 patients completed all follow-ups and 4 patients were lost to contact. All 39 patients tolerated MSC-apoVs well, with no serious adverse events or abnormal blood test results observed. The MSC-apoV group exhibited shortened hemostatic time and accelerated alveolar bone regeneration compared with the control group. This is the first clinical study to demonstrate that apoVs are safe, well tolerated, and effective as a cell-free biological therapy for hemostasis and bone regeneration.Copyright © 2025 The American Society of Gene and Cell Therapy. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Hypervitaminosis D is induced iatrogenically or endogenously. We previously reported that the vitamin D receptor (VDR) in osteoblast lineage cells mediates bone resorption and soft-tissue calcification in hypervitaminosis D. However, bone formation in hypervitaminosis D remains understudied. Here, we show that abundant 1α,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 [1,25(OH)2D3] suppresses bone formation through VDR in osteoblast lineage cells. High-dose 1,25(OH)2D3 suppressed bone formation and increased serum sclerostin, a bone formation inhibitor, in Control but not osteoblast lineage-specific VDR-cKO [Osterix (Osx)-VDR-cKO] mice. However, Sost mRNA expression in bone was downregulated by 1,25(OH)2D3 in Control but not Osx-VDR-cKO mice. Meanwhile, mRNA expression of β-1,4-N-acetyl-galactosaminyltransferase 3 (B4GALNT3), whose function is reported to decrease circulating sclerostin, was suppressed by 1,25(OH)2D3 in bone in Control but not Osx-VDR-cKO mice. Overexpressed B4galnt3 in rodent osteoblast-lineage cell lines increased GalNAcβ1→4GlcNAc- (LDN-) glycosylated sclerostin, suggesting that this modification can explain the discordance between serum sclerostin levels and mRNA in bone. Although excessive 1,25(OH)2D3 increased mRNA levels of Fibroblast growth factor 23 (Fgf23), another osteotropic factor, by 10-fold through VDR in osteoblast lineage cells, it was previously shown to increase serum FGF23 levels by several hundred-fold. 1,25(OH)2D3-induced changes of FGF23-degradation regulators, such as furin, polypeptide N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase 3 (GALNT3), and family with sequence similarity member 20 C (FAM20C), did not match the markedly high FGF23 levels, suggesting the existence of other regulators of FGF23. These findings suggest that VDR plays pivotal roles in the suppression of bone formation in hypervitaminosis D, possibly by increasing circulations of sclerostin and FGF23 through post-translational or post-transcriptional mechanisms.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
The incidence of laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma (LSCC) has been rising recently. LSCC is one of the most prevalent malignant tumors of the head and neck. In this study, we aimed to investigate whether tripartite motif containing 71 (TRIM71) could serve as a molecular target for the treatment of LSCC. The mRNA and protein levels were examined by using real-time qPCR and Western blot, respectively. Cell proliferation was determined by cell-counting kit 8 assay. To further confirm the function of TRIM71 in LSCC, an in vivo cell line-derived xenograft study was conducted. The half-life of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 5A2 (eIF5A2) protein was measured by cycloheximide chase assay. Our results showed that TRIM71 was significantly downregulated in LSCC tumor tissues. TRIM71 overexpression significantly inhibited LSCC cell growth and suppressed tumor volume and weight in the xenograft models. The interaction between TRIM71 and eIF5A2 was verified by co-immunoprecipitation assay. Moreover, overexpression of TRIM71 in LSCC cells significantly inhibited the protein expression of eIF5A2 by down-regulating its stability, while it did not affect its mRNA level. In contrast, overexpression of eIF5A2 abolished the anti-tumor effects of TRIM71. In summary, TRIM71 may exert its anti-tumor effects through regulating eIF5A2, highlighting the potential of TRIM71 as an effective therapeutic target for the treatment of LSCC.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
The scaffold protein FRS2 is central to FGFR signaling, linking receptor activation to MAPK/ERK and PI3K/AKT pathways. Elevated FRS2 expression correlates with aggressive tumor phenotypes and poor prognosis across multiple cancers, including the pediatric cerebellar tumor medulloblastoma (MB).Here, we characterized FRS2's subcellular localization and interactome in MB cells, employing live-cell imaging, phosphoproteomics, immunoprecipitation, and APEX2-based proximity labeling. We found that increased FRS2 expression is associated with increased motile and invasive behavior in MB tumor cells. We furthermore identified novel candidate FRS2-associated proteins involved in actin cytoskeleton remodeling, cell junction assembly, and translation initiation, which indicate a growth factor-dependent reorganization of the FRS2 signalosome. Our data additionally indicate a regulatory role of FRS2 in directing subcellular distribution of the cell junction and cell motility regulator TJP1.Our findings highlight the relevance of FRS2 as a mediator of cell motility and invasiveness and provide candidate proteins associated with FRS2 that are involved in cellular processes governing migration and invasion. This study thus provides a framework for exploring the FRS2 interactome as a possible target to attenuate FGFR-driven oncogenic processes with next-generation therapeutic strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Thyroid carcinoma (TC) is the most common cancer of the endocrine system. Dysregulation of microRNA-590-5p (miR-590-5p) has been associated with various malignancies. Targeting mitochondrial respiration is beneficial in treating TC. This study aims to evaluate the role of miR-590-5p in the proliferation and apoptosis of TC cells via mediating mitochondrial respiration.Reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was used to analyze differential expression of miR-590-5p in TC and para-cancerous tissues, normal thyrocytes, and TC cell lines. TC cells were transfected with agomiRNA negative control (agomiR-NC) or agomiRNA-590-5p (agomiR-590-5p). Cell counting kit 8 (CCK-8) assays, JC-1 staining, reactive oxygen species (ROS) measurements, and flow cytometry were used to detect cell proliferation, mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), ROS levels, and apoptosis, respectively. The targeting relationship between miR-590-5p and fibroblast growth factor receptor substrate 2 (FRS2) was verified using dual-luciferase reporter assay. The role of miR-590-5p in tumor growth was analyzed in mouse xenograft tumors.miR-590-5p was expressed at low levels in TC tissues and cells relative to normal tissues. Overexpression of miR-590-5p reduced TC cell proliferation, enhanced apoptosis, and inhibited mitochondrial respiration. miR-590-5p suppressed FRS2 transcription in TC cells. Overexpression of FRS2 reversed the effects of miR-590-5p overexpression, limiting mitochondrial respiration and proliferation, and promoting apoptosis. In vivo, overexpression of miR-590-5p suppressed xenograft tumor growth in mice by reducing the transcription of FRS2.miR-590-5p was poorly expressed in TC. Overexpression of miR-590-5p limited TC cell proliferation and promoted apoptosis by reducing mitochondrial respiration via decreased transcription of FRS2.
Background: Retroperitoneal liposarcoma (RLPS) is a rare malignancy with no effective treatment beyond surgical intervention. Identifying novel therapeutic targets and prognostic markers is critical to improving outcomes. Fibroblast growth factor receptor substrate 2 (FRS2), located near MDM2 on chromosome 12q13-15, has a biological role and prognostic value in liposarcoma, which remain to be fully explored. Methods: Bioinformatics tools were used to analyze the differential expression of FRS2 across various malignancies using public databases, such as GTEx, TCGA, and cBioPortal. In sarcomas (SARC), clinicopathological features, prognostic outcomes, co-expressed genes, levels of tumor-infiltrating immune cells, immunostimulators, major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules, and immunochemokines were extracted from multiple public databases. Tumor specimens from 82 RLPS patients at our sarcoma center were collected, and FRS2 expression was assessed through immunohistochemistry. Results: FRS2 was found to be upregulated and amplified in most cancers. GEPIA 2 analysis showed significant variation in FRS2 mRNA expression across cancer types, especially in sarcomas (SARC). Lower FRS2 expression in SARC was correlated with improved overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS). FRS2 may affect the tumor immune microenvironment, inhibiting immune cell infiltration and promoting immune evasion. In our RLPS cohort, FRS2 overexpression was observed in 58.53% (48/82) of cases and was correlated with age (P = 0.009). High FRS2 expression was associated with poorer OS and DFS (P = 0.049 and P < 0.001, respectively), and multivariate analysis confirmed FRS2 as an independent prognostic factor. Conclusion: FRS2 may serve as a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic oncogene target. Additionally, FRS2 could play a role in immune cell infiltration in SARC and represents a promising immunotherapeutic target for cancer treatment.© The author(s).
Protein-protein interaction domains are essential for cellular homeostasis and the regulation of various molecular pathways, mediating highly specific and reversible binding events. The PhosphoTyrosine-Binding domains (PTB) play a pivotal role in regulating several cellular events, by recognizing phosphorylated and, in some cases, non-phosphorylated ligands. In this study we investigated the folding and functional properties of the PTB domain of FRS2 (Fibroblast growth factor receptor substrate 2) under oxidative and reductive experimental conditions. Results demonstrate a surprising and previously undetected role of a disulfide bond between Cys61 and Cys80 residues in such events. Through an extensive site-directed mutagenesis we demonstrated that the presence/absence of such disulfide bridge, although not changing dramatically the overall structure of the domain, significantly influence its dynamic properties by rewiring a subtle energetic network stabilizing the domain. These effects result in remodulating its binding properties with phosphorylated and unphosphorylated peptides. Molecular dynamics simulations further elucidated how the oxidative/reductive conditions modulate the dynamics of the domain. Finally, we identified lead inhibitory compounds with different efficacy observed across the oxidized and reduced states of the PTB domain. Altogether, these findings provide novel insights for understanding the mechanism of regulation of the function of the PTB domain of FRS2.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Human aortic vascular smooth muscle cells (HA-VSMCs) play vital roles in the pathogenesis of vascular diseases, including Atherosclerosis (AS). Circular RNAs (circRNAs) have been reported to regulate the biological functions of HA-VSMCs. Therefore, this study aimed to explore the role and mechanism of hsa_circRNA_102353 (circ_0007765) in platelet-derived growth factor-BB (PDGF-BB)-induced HA-VSMCs. Circ_0007765, microRNA-654-3p (miR-654-3p), and Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor Substrate 2 (FRS2) expression were measured using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). Cell proliferative ability, invasion, and migration were detected by 3-(4, 5-dimethyl-2-thiazolyl)-2, 5-diphenyl-2-H-tetrazolium bromide (MTT), 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU), Transwell, and wound healing assays. CyclinD1, MMP2, and FRS2 protein levels were assessed using a Western blot assay. Binding between miR-654-3p and circ_0007765 or FRS2 was predicted by Circinteractome or TargetScan, and verified using dual-luciferase reporter and RNA pull-down assays. PDGF-BB induced HA-VSMC proliferation, invasion, and migration. Circ_0007765 and FRS2 expression levels were increased in PDGF-BB-treated HA-VSMCs, and the miR-654-3p level was reduced. Moreover, circ_0007765 absence hindered PDGF-BB-induced HA-VSMC proliferation, invasion, and migration in vitro. At the molecular level, circ_0007765 increased FRS2 expression by acting as a sponge for miR-654-3p. Our findings revealed that circ_0007765 boosted PDGF-BB-induced HA-VSMC proliferation and migration through elevating FRS2 expression via adsorbing miR-654-3p, providing a feasible therapeutic strategy for AS.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Circular RNA (circRNAs) has been confirmed to participate in atherosclerosis (AS) progression. However, the role and mechanism of hsa_circ_0032389 in AS process still need to be further revealed. This study evaluates the role and mechanism of hsa_circ_0032389 in AS process. Platelet-derived growth factor-BB (PDGF-BB) was used to induce human aortic vascular smooth muscle cells (HA-VSMCs). The expression levels of hsa_circ_0032389, microRNA (miR)-513a-5p, and fibroblast growth factor receptor substrate 2 (FRS2) were examined by quantitative real-time PCR. Cell proliferation and migration were analyzed using cell counting kit 8 assay, flow cytometry, EdU assay, transwell assay, and wound healing assay. Protein expression was assessed using western blot analysis. Dual-luciferase reporter and RIP assays were used to confirm RNA interaction. Hsa_circ_0032389 was overexpressed in PDGF-BB-induced HA-VSMCs, and its downregulation inhibited HA-VSMC viability, cell cycle, EdU positive cell rate, migratory cell number, and wound closure rate under PDGF-BB treatment. The luciferase activity of hsa_circ_0032389wt could be reduced by miR-513a-5p mimic, and both hsa_circ_0032389 and miR-513a-5p were enriched in anti-Ago2, confirming that miR-513a-5p could be sponged by hsa_circ_0032389. MiR-513a-5p inhibitor reversed the effect of hsa_circ_0032389 knockdown on PDGF-BB-induced HA-VSMC viability, cell cycle, EdU positive cell rate, migratory cell number, and wound closure rate. Moreover, the luciferase activity of FRS2wt was reduced by miR-513a-5p mimic, and both FRS2 and miR-513a-5p were enriched in anti-Ago2, verifying that FRS2 was targeted by miR-513a-5p. MiR-513a-5p suppressed PDGF-BB-induced HA-VSMC viability, cell cycle, EdU positive cell rate, migratory cell number, and wound closure rate by targeting FRS2. Our results indicated that hsa_circ_0032389 enhanced PDGF-BB-induced HA-VSMC proliferation and migration via regulating miR-513a-5p/FRS2 axis.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Atherosclerosis (AS) is a pivotal pathological basis of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases, and circular RNAs (circRNAs) has been disclosed to exert a vital part in the progression of AS. However, the functions of circ_0004872 in the progression of AS is indistinct. In this context, we aimed to elucidate the role of circ_0004872 and the potential mechanism in AS. The level of circ_0004872, miR-424-5p and fibroblast growth factor receptor substrate 2 (FRS2) was detected using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Cell proliferation was monitored by Cell Counting Kit-8 and 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EDU) assays. The invasion and migration capabilities of VSMCs were tested by transwell assays and wound-healing assay, respectively. Western blot was adopted to check the protein levels of CyclinD1, Vimentin and FRS2. Dual-luciferase reporter and RNA immunoprecipitation assay were executed to manifest the interaction between miR-424-5p and circ_0004872 or FRS2. The level of circ_0004872 was increased in the serum samples of AS patients and ox-LDL-exposed VSMCs. Ox-LDL exposure triggered cell proliferation, invasion and migration ability of VSMCs. depletion of circ_0004872 partly weakened ox-LDL-mediated effects in VSMCs. Mechanistically, circ_0004872 functioned as a sponge of miR-424-5p, and miR-424-5p inhibition partly alleviated circ_0004872 deficiency-mediated influences in VSMCs. Additionally, miR-424-5p interacted with FRS2, and miR-424-5p constrained dysfunction in ox-LDL-stimulated VSMCs via reducing FRS2 level. Notably, circ_0004872 functioned as a sponge of miR-424-5p to elevate FRS2 expression. Circ_0004872 accelerated ox-LDL-induced damage via mediating miR-424-5p/FRS2 axis.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
The aim of this study was to investigate the expression level of fibroblast growth factor receptor substrate 2 (FRS2) in tissues of patients with primary retroperitoneal liposarcoma (PRPLS) and its correlation with recurrence and prognosis.The pathological specimens, medical records, and follow-up information of patients with PRPLS who underwent radical surgery for the first time in our hospital from January 2013 to December 2016 were retrospectively analyzed. FRS2 protein expression in tissues was determined by immunohistochemistry staining, and the FRS2 protein positive rates in patients with different clinicopathological features were compared. Factors influencing patients' recurrence and survival were determined using the multivariate Cox stepwise regression model.This research enrolled 87 patients with PRPLS, with the number of cases presenting FRS2 protein positive rate and positive rate in pathological tissues accounting for 62.07% (54/87) and 37.93% (33/87), respectively. The positive expression of FRS2 protein varied markedly among patients with different pathological types, FNCC, LCC grade, number of tumors, positive margin, and recurrence and metastasis (with vs. without) (all p<0.05). The 87 patients were followed up for 3.5-102 months (median, 27.5 months), with a postoperative 5-year overall disease-free survival (DFS) rate of 17.24% [median progression-free survival (PFS): 24.7 months] and a 5-year overall survival (OS) rate of 44.83% (median OS: 47.3 months). Kaplan-Meier survival curves revealed significantly shorter PFS and OS in patients with positive FRS2 protein expression vs. those with negative FRS2 protein expression (χ2=6.396, 5.032, p<0.05). According to the univariate analysis, the 5-year overall DFS rate varied significantly among patients with different pathological types, Fédération Nationale des Centres De Lutte Contre le Cancer (FNCLCC) grades, number of tumors, positive margin, and FRS2 protein expression (all p<0.05). Pathological type, FNCLCC grading, tumor number, recurrence and metastasis, positive margin, and FRS2 protein expression were significantly correlated with the 5-year OS rate of patients (all p<0.05). Furthermore, pathological type, FNCLCC grading, multiple tumors, positive margin, and FRS2 protein expression were identified by multivariate Cox regression analysis to be independent factors that affected patients' 5-year DFS and OS rates (all p<0.05), and that relapsed and metastasized patients had a 4.586-fold risk of death than those without recurrence and metastasis.FRS2 shows a high positive rate in the tissues of PRPLS patients and is significantly related to the prognostic recurrence and survival of patients, with potential value in judging the prognosis of patients.
Lung cancer refers to the occurrence of malignant tumors in the lung, and squamous cell carcinoma is one of the most common pathological types of non-small cell lung cancer. Studies have shown that microRNAs (miRNAs) play an important role in the occurrence, development, early diagnosis, and treatment of lung cancer. This study aimed to explore the role and possible mechanism of MicroRNA-338-3p (miR-338-3p) in lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC).In this study, we compared 238 LUSC patients with relatively high miR-338-3p expression levels with 238 miR-338-3p expression levels in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA)-LUSC dataset using first-line gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA). Second, the mRNA expression of miR-338-3p, FGFR2, and fibroblast growth factor receptor substrate 2 (FRS2) in 30 lung cancers and adjacent lung tissues was detected using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Finally, in vitro experiments were conducted, whereby the expression levels of miR-338-3p in lung cancer cells (H1703, SKMES1, H2170, H520) and normal lung epithelial cells (16HBE) were detected using qRT-PCR. miR-338-3p was overexpressed in lung cancer cells (H1703), and the cell proliferation (cell counting kit-8 [CCK8] assay), colony formation, cell apoptosis, cell cycle (BD-FACSVerse assay, Becton Dickinson, Bedford, MA, USA), cell invasion, and migration (Transwell assay, Thermo Fischer Corporation, Waltham, MA, USA) were detected.We found that the expression of miR-338-3p was significantly reduced in LUSC tissues (p ​< ​0.001) and cancer cell lines (P < 0.01), and miR-338-3p was significantly negatively correlated with the expression of FGFR2 (P < 0.001) and FRS2 (P < 0.01). Furthermore, overexpression of miR-338-3p inhibited proliferation (P < 0.001), migration, and invasion (P < 0.001) of LUSC cell lines and increased apoptosis in the G1 phase (P < 0.001) and cell cycle arrest (P < 0.05).Our study demonstrates that miR-338-3p inhibits tumor cell proliferation and migration by targeting FGFR2 and FRS2 in LUSC. We believe that miR-338-3p may be a promising target for the treatment of LUSC.© 2022 Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of Chinese Medical Association (CMA).
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a type of malignant tumor with an incompletely understood etiology, particularly concerning the specific cellular origins that trigger tumorigenesis. The precise cells that initiate the cancer transformation within the complex tissue environment of the colon and rectum remain largely elusive, contributing to the challenges in the prevention and early detection of this disease. In this study, we employed single-cell RNA sequencing to analyze 14 samples from CRC tumors, intestinal polyps, and adjacent normal tissues collected from four patients with CRC. Our analysis revealed goblet cells as a potential novel cellular origin for CRC. By comparing significantly differentially expressed genes in goblet cell subpopulations between CRC and para-tumor tissues, and overlapping with a database of human transcription factors, we identified Churchill Domain Containing 1 (CHURC1) as being highly expressed in patients with CRC. We hypothesized CHURC1 as a transcriptional activator (TA) due to its incorporation of the Churchill domain. However, further comprehensive assays demonstrated that CHURC1 is not a TA and functions as a novel oncogene that promotes CRC proliferation and metastasis. Additionally, we discovered that CHURC1 significantly influences immune cytokine release within the tumor immune microenvironment and acts as a negative predictor for tumor-reactive T cells in immunotherapy. Collectively, our findings suggest that CHURC1, which is significantly differentially expressed in goblet cells, is a new oncogene implicated in CRC development, presenting a promising therapeutic target for its treatment.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Identifying genetic markers of economically valuable traits has practical benefits for the meat goat industry. To better understand the genomic variations influencing body conformation traits, a genome-wide association study was performed on Tashi goats, an indigenous Chinese goat breed. A total of 155 Tashi goats were phenotyped for eight body conformation traits: body height, body length, chest depth, chest width, chest girth, rump width, rump height, and cannon bone circumference. Then, 100 Tashi goats were randomly selected for whole-genome sequencing and genotyped. We obtained 1676.4 Gb of raw data with an average sequencing depth of 6.2X. Clean reads were aligned to the ARS1.2 reference genome, and 11,257,923 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were identified. The structure analysis showed that these Tashi goats were almost not genetically related. The 109, 20, 52, 14, 62, 51, 70, and 7 SNPs were significantly associated with body height, body length, chest depth, chest width, chest girth, rump width, rump height, and cannon bone circumference. Within the ±500 kb region of significant SNPs, 183 genes were annotated. The most significantly enriched KEGG pathway was "olfactory transduction", and the most significantly enriched gene ontology (GO) terms were "cellular process", "cellular anatomical entity", and "molecular transducer activity". Interestingly, we found several SNPs on chromosomes 10 and 11 that have been identified multiple times for all eight body conformation traits located in two fragments (114 kb and 1.03 Mb). In chr.10:25988403-26102739, the six SNPs were tightly linked, the TACTAG genotype was the highest at 91.8%, and the FNTB (Farnesyltransferase, CAAX Box Beta) and CHURC1 (Churchill Domain Containing 1) genes were located. In chr.11:88216493-89250659, ten SNPs were identified with several dependent linkage disequilibrium (LD) blocks, and seven related genes were annotated, but no significant SNP was located in them. Our results provide valuable biological information for improving growth performance with practical applications for genomic selection in goats.
Objective: To explore the causal relationships between human inflammatory proteins and hypertrophic scars (HS) and keloids. Methods: This study was conducted based on bidirectional two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis. Data of human inflammatory proteins, HS, and keloids were acquired from genome-wide association study database. The inverse variance weighted (IVW) method was adopted to evaluate the causal relationships between 91 kinds of human inflammatory proteins and HS and keloids, i.e., a forward MR analysis. For the above associations, Cochran's Q test was used to assess heterogeneity, MR-Egger regression and MR-PRESSO outlier tests were performed to evaluate horizontal pleiotropy, and the leave-one-out method was applied to analyze the robustness of the results. The IVW method was also used to evaluate whether there was a reverse causal relationship between HS, keloids and inflammatory proteins screened out by aforementioned forward MR analysis. Results: CD6, leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), tumor necrosis factor ligand superfamily member 12 (TNFSF12), programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1), interleukin-17C (IL-17C), LIF receptor (LIFR), osteoprotegerin (OPG), and fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23) had significant causal relationships with HS (with ORs of 1.365, 0.506, 1.567, 1.683, 0.621, 1.375, 0.623, and 0.553, respectively, 95% CIs of 1.100-1.693, 0.289-0.887, 1.081-2.273, 1.090-2.599, 0.408-0.947, 1.025-1.845, 0.402-0.966, and 0.315-0.971, respectively, P<0.05). Among them, CD6, TNFSF12, PD-L1, and LIFR were risk factors for HS, while LIF, IL-17C, OPG, and FGF23 were protective factors for HS. CD5, IL-10 receptor subunit alpha (IL-10RA), IL-5, LIF, and OPG had significant causal relationships with keloids (with ORs of 0.744, 1.303, 0.686, 0.603, and 0.715, respectively, 95% CIs of 0.573-0.965, 1.024-1.660, 0.472-0.996, 0.431-0.842, and 0.553-0.924, respectively, P<0.05). Among them, IL-10RA was a risk factor for keloids, whereas CD5, IL-5, LIF, and OPG were protective factors for keloids. No significant heterogeneity or horizontal pleiotropy was observed in the above associations (P>0.05), and the robustness of the results was not driven by any single nucleotide polymorphism. Significant reverse causal relationships existed between HS and TNFSF12 and LIFR of the 8 inflammatory proteins which had significant causal relationships with HS screened out by aforementioned forward MR analysis (with ORs of 0.972 and 0.968, respectively, 95% CIs of 0.949-0.997 and 0.942-0.994, respectively, P<0.05). No reverse causal relationship was found between keloids and the 5 inflammatory proteins which had significant causal relationships with keloids screened out by aforementioned forward MR analysis (P>0.05). Conclusions: CD6, TNFSF12, PD-L1, and LIFR may increase the risk of HS, while LIF, IL-17C, OPG, and FGF23 may decrease the risk of HS. IL-10RA may increase the risk of keloids, while CD5, IL-5, LIF, and OPG may decrease the risk of keloids.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42530382 is a review article
Background: Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is associated with early disturbances in mineral metabolism that contribute to bone fragility. Secondary hyperparathyroidism is a key component of chronic kidney disease-mineral and bone disorder (CKD-MBD) and may affect bone even during the early stages of CKD. This study evaluated the association between serum parathyroid hormone (PTH) concentrations and bone mineral density (BMD) in patients with stage 3 CKD. Methods: A multicenter cross-sectional observational study was conducted in 203 patients with stage 3 CKD. Blood and 24 h urine samples were collected to measure creatinine, calcium, phosphate, magnesium, 25-hydroxyvitamin D, fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23), and PTH. Bone mineral density was assessed by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA). Associations between serum PTH concentrations and BMD were analyzed. Results: Elevated serum PTH concentrations were associated with lower femoral BMD and less favorable femoral T-scores, whereas no significant associations were observed at the lumbar spine. Serum PTH concentrations were inversely correlated with femoral BMD and femoral T-scores. Patients with reduced femoral BMD also showed higher FGF23 concentrations and lower renal function, while serum calcium, phosphate, magnesium, and 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentrations did not differ significantly among the groups. Conclusions: Elevated serum PTH concentrations were associated with reduced femoral BMD in patients with stage 3 CKD, supporting preferential early involvement of cortical bone. Serum PTH may represent an accessible biomarker for the early identification of patients at increased risk of cortical bone loss before conventional biochemical abnormalities become clinically apparent.
Background/Objectives: This study aimed to evaluate serum fibroblast growth factor-23 (FGF-23) and α-Klotho levels in patients with prolactinoma and patients with non-tumoral hyperprolactinemia and to explore their discriminatory performance for prolactinoma. Methods: Seventy-three participants were included in this single-center, cross-sectional comparative study: non-tumoral hyperprolactinemia (n = 14), prolactinoma (n = 29), and healthy controls (n = 30). All patients with prolactinoma had received dopamine agonist therapy for at least six months. Serum FGF-23 and α-Klotho were measured by ELISA, and between-group comparisons, correlation analyses, linear regression analyses, and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analyses were performed. Results: FGF-23 concentrations differed significantly among the groups (overall p < 0.001). Post hoc analysis showed that FGF-23 concentrations were significantly higher in the prolactinoma group [236.10 (107.70-667.90) pg/mL] than in healthy controls [138.75 (49.40-253.60) pg/mL] (adjusted p < 0.001), whereas the difference between the prolactinoma and non-tumoral hyperprolactinemia groups [166.20 (100.30-327.20) pg/mL] was not statistically significant (adjusted p = 0.075). α-Klotho concentrations were significantly higher in the prolactinoma group [2.908 (1.376-6.257) ng/mL] than in both the non-tumoral hyperprolactinemia group [2.244 (1.432-5.139) ng/mL] (adjusted p = 0.038) and healthy controls [2.204 (0.149-4.917) ng/mL] (adjusted p < 0.001). In pooled analyses, both biomarkers showed positive correlations with prolactin and weak negative correlations with hemoglobin. However, prolactin and hemoglobin were not independently associated with either biomarker after multivariable adjustment. The non-tumoral hyperprolactinemia group did not differ significantly from healthy controls for either biomarker. For distinguishing prolactinoma from non-tumoral hyperprolactinemia, the AUCs were 0.741 for FGF-23, 0.732 for α-Klotho, and 0.862 for the exploratory combined model. Conclusions: Dopamine agonist-treated prolactinoma was characterized by higher circulating FGF-23 concentrations than those in healthy controls and by higher α-Klotho concentrations than those in both healthy controls and patients with non-tumoral hyperprolactinemia. Exploratory ROC analyses suggested moderate discriminatory performance for the individual biomarkers and higher apparent performance for the combined model; however, these findings should be interpreted cautiously and require validation in larger, treatment-naïve cohorts.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42501286 is a review article
Hypophosphatemic osteomalacia is an uncommon metabolic bone disorder that may present with nonspecific musculoskeletal symptoms, resulting in delayed diagnosis across orthopedic and emergency care pathways. We describe a 55-year-old man who presented through a National Health Service (NHS) orthopedic pathway with progressive atraumatic bilateral hip and groin pain, worsening mobility, proximal muscle weakness, and functional decline, initially managed as presumed mechanical musculoskeletal pain. Plain hip and pelvic radiographs did not identify a structural explanation for the severity of his symptoms. Initial laboratory investigations demonstrated profound hypophosphatemia (0.32 mmol/L) with markedly elevated alkaline phosphatase (428 IU/L), mildly reduced corrected calcium (2.18 mmol/L), elevated parathyroid hormone, and vitamin D insufficiency. Because the severity of hypophosphatemia appeared disproportionate to the degree of vitamin D deficiency, extended metabolic bone investigations were undertaken. Further testing demonstrated renal phosphate wasting with reduced tubular maximum phosphate reabsorption corrected for glomerular filtration rate (TmP/GFR 0.42 mmol/L) and C-terminal fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23) above the laboratory reference range (248 RU/mL), supporting suspected FGF23-mediated phosphate-wasting osteomalacia; localization imaging and definitive etiologic classification remained pending at the time of reporting. Severe hypophosphatemia with elevated alkaline phosphatase in patients presenting with unexplained atraumatic bilateral hip or groin pain, proximal weakness, or progressive mobility impairment should prompt consideration of metabolic bone disease and renal phosphate wasting. This case also illustrates that clinically significant osteomalacia may occur despite only mildly reduced calcium concentrations and initially nondiagnostic radiographs. Early biochemical recognition may facilitate timely specialist referral and help reduce diagnostic delay and downstream skeletal morbidity in patients with phosphate-wasting disorders.Copyright © 2026, Chery et al.
Vitamin-D deficiency is common in chronic heart failure (CHF) and may be linked to disturbances in mineral metabolism and cardiovascular biomarkers. This study investigated the association between Vitamin-D status and biochemical and cardiovascular markers across different CHF stages.This cross-sectional observational study was conducted between 2023 to 2024 at three tertiary care centers in Baku, Azerbaijan (Republican Clinical Center, Sabunchu Clinical Center, and 1st Clinical Medical Center). The study included 219 patients with chronic heart failure (CHF), classified according to the New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional classification: 123 patients in class I-II and 96 patients in class III-IV. Serum Vitamin-D, mineral parameters, and cardiovascular biomarkers: BNP, NT-proBNP, galectin-3, parathormone (PTH), endothelin-1, fibroblast growth factor-23 (FGF-23), and vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A) were measured. Correlation analyses were performed to assess relationships between Vitamin-D levels and these markers.Vitamin-D levels decreased with worsening NYHA class. Advanced CHF was associated with mineral metabolism disturbances and increased myocardial, neurohumoral, and vascular biomarkers. Significant inverse correlations were observed between Vitamin-D concentrations and BNP, NT-proBNP, galectin-3, and FGF-23, highlighting interconnected changes among these markers in CHF progression.Lower Vitamin-D levels are associated with greater functional severity of CHF and unfavorable biomarker profiles, suggesting that worsening Vitamin-D deficiency may be involved in disease progression and clinical deterioration.Copyright: © Pakistan Journal of Medical Sciences.
To investigate short-term changes in hormonal, bone metabolic, and inflammatory markers after ultrasound-guided microwave ablation (MWA) in patients with hyperparathyroidism (HPT).Nineteen patients (14 with primary HPT[PHPT], 5 with secondary HPT[SHPT]) underwent MWA. Serum intact parathyroid hormone (iPTH), calcium, phosphate, alkaline phosphatase (ALP), bone turnover markers [e.g., procollagen type I N-terminal propeptide (PINP), bone-specific ALP (BALP), fibroblast growth factor-23 (FGF-23), etc.], and inflammatory markers [e.g., C-reactive protein (CRP), interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), etc.] were measured at baseline, day 1, and month 1 post-ablation.iPTH and calcium decreased by day 1 (both P < 0.001); iPTH remained reduced at month 1 (P < 0.001), while calcium slightly increased (P = 0.046). Phosphate showed a borderline upward trend (P = 0.050), and ALP decreased at month 1 (P = 0.044). PINP increased at month 1 (P = 0.011; day 1 to month 1 P = 0.001), BALP trended upward (P = 0.112), and FGF-23 declined over time (P = 0.015). CRP peaked at day 1 and decreased by month 1 (P = 0.036); other cytokines remained unchanged. In PHPT, iPTH and calcium decreased on day 1 (both P ≤ 0.001), PINP increased by month 1 (P = 0.013), and FGF-23 declined (P = 0.009). In SHPT, trends were directionally similar but not statistically significant; calcium decreased on day 1 (P = 0.043) and rebounded by month 1. No severe hypocalcemia occurred; two patients experienced transient hoarseness.Microwave ablation induces rapid biochemical normalization and early skeletal and inflammatory changes in patients with hyperparathyroidism.Copyright © 2026 Wei, Zhao, Wu, Cao, Yu, Cai, Li, Peng and Yu.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42483646 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42388976 is a review article
Chordin is a cysteine-rich protein which acts as a regulator of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling in the extracellular matrix. Acting in concert with twisted gastrulation (TWSG1), chordin works as an antagonist of BMP signaling by binding tightly to the growth factor and is a vital component of the network of interactions that establish developmental signaling gradients. Chordin is known to interact with BMP ligands via its four von-Willebrand factor type C domains, but the function of the large central four CHRD domains were previously unknown. Here we show that these domains interact strongly with sulfated glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) and provide evidence for the location of the binding site using X-ray crystallographic analysis combined with mutagenesis and biophysical techniques. Additionally, we report the first recombinant expression and purification of the complete functional chordin, TWSG1, BMP2, BMP7 complex which was used to demonstrate that the four CHRD domains are largely redundant with respect to the role of chordin as an inhibitor of BMP ligands. We therefore propose that the four CHRD domains of chordin have relevance in the diffusion and localization of chordin-TWSG1-BMP complexes at the tissue and organismal level, mediated by their interaction with GAGs or proteoglycans.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To investigate the association between mid-pregnancy serum levels of insulin-like growth factor binding protein-1 (IGFBP-1) and chordin-like 1 (CHRDL1) and the occurrence of fetal growth restriction (FGR) in late pregnancy among women with gestational hypertension (GH).This prospective nested case-control study was conducted within an established cohort of pregnant women with GH from January 2021 to January 2025. A total of 731 singleton pregnant women with GH at 20-24 gestational weeks were enrolled and followed up by dedicated nurses (those lost to follow-up were contacted at least three times) until late pregnancy (≥28 weeks), with 711 completing the entire follow-up. Based on prenatal ultrasound diagnosis, 106 cases of FGR were identified. These cases were individually matched in a 1:2 ratio (matching factors: maternal age, pre-pregnancy body mass index (BMI), and parity) with 212 controls selected from women without FGR, resulting in a final nested case-control sample of 318 participants. Fasting serum samples were collected at 20-24 weeks of gestation, and IGFBP-1 and CHRDL1 levels were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). FGR occurrence was assessed based on estimated fetal weight (EFW) monitored by B-ultrasound. Spearman's correlation analysis evaluated associations between mid-pregnancy serum concentrations of IGFBP-1 and CHRDL1 with EFW. Conditional logistic regression identified determinants of FGR development in late pregnancy within the GH cohort. The discriminative performance of mid-pregnancy serum IGFBP-1 and CHRDL1 for late-pregnancy FGR prediction was assessed using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis.Among 731 pregnant women with GH, 20 (2.74%) were lost to follow-up, and 711 completed the entire follow-up; of these, 106 (14.91%) developed FGR. Following 1:2 matching with 212 controls, 318 participants were included in the nested analysis. Serum levels of IGFBP-1 and CHRDL1 were significantly higher in the FGR group compared with the control group (both p < 0.001). The two biomarkers were positively correlated with each other (r = 0.455, p < 0.05) and negatively correlated with EFW (r = -0.335, -0.304, both p < 0.05). Conditional logistic regression analysis revealed that elevated systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP), IGFBP-1, and CHRDL1 were independent risk factors for FGR, while elevated triglycerides (TG) were protective factors. ROC curve analysis demonstrated that the area under the curve (AUC) for IGFBP-1 and CHRDL1 alone in predicting FGR was 0.734 (95%CI: 0.677-0.791) and 0.704 (95%CI: 0.645-0.762), respectively; the combined AUC was 0.801 (95%CI: 0.750-0.852).Elevated serum IGFBP-1 and CHRDL1 levels in mid-pregnancy are independent risk factors for FGR in late pregnancy among women with GH. The combination of these two biomarkers demonstrates favorable predictive value, providing an actionable biomarker panel for early identification of high-risk populations in clinical practice, enabling intensified monitoring and intervention initiation at 20-24 weeks of gestation, and ultimately improving perinatal outcomes.
Ferroptosis has increasingly emerged as a novel target for cancer therapy because of intrinsic or acquired ferroptosis vulnerabilities in cancers. Small nucleolar RNA (snoRNA)-mediated mRNA modifications play a critical role in regulating ferroptosis and supporting tumor cell adaptation. However, the function and mechanism of the box C/D snoRNA SNORD60 in hepatoblastoma (HB) remain poorly understood. Here, we found that SNORD60 expression was markedly downregulated in HB tissues, and restoring its expression inhibited HB cell proliferation and induced ferroptosis both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, SNORD60 guided the 2'-O-methylation (Nm) of kielin/chordin-like protein (KCP) mRNA, and accelerated its degradation by resolving a G-quadruplex proximal to the Nm site. Furthermore, Silencing KCP induced lipid peroxidation and ferroptosis by suppressing ATF4-mediated transcription of SLC7A11. Moreover, plasma KCP protein levels were markedly higher in patients with HB than in healthy individuals, supporting KCP as a reliable non-invasive diagnostic biomarker for HB. High KCP expression correlates with poor patient prognosis. Overall, our findings reveal that SNORD60-mediated Nm modification of KCP prevents tumor cells from evading ferroptosis and inhibits tumor progression. This SNORD60/KCP axis represents a novel ferroptosis vulnerability and a promising therapeutic target in HB.© 2026. The Author(s).
Inherited diseases characterized by abnormal corneal morphology include cornea plana, megalocornea, keratoconus and brittle cornea syndrome. This study aims to investigate genes responsible for these diseases.Variants in genes responsible for cornea plana, megalocornea, keratoconus and brittle cornea syndrome were analyzed and characterized by multistep bioinformatics approach based on three large data sets, including our in-house exome sequencing database from patients with inherited eye diseases, literature review, and gnomAD database. Additionally, the phenotypes of patients carrying these variants were collected.125 variants in six genes, namely KERA (Keratocan; OMIM: 603288), CHRDL1 (Chordin-like 1; OMIM: 300350), VSX1 (Visual system homeobox 1; OMIM: 605020), TUBA3D (Tubulin, alpha-3d; OMIM: 617878), ZNF469 (Zinc finger protein 469; OMIM: 612078), and PRDM5 (PR domain-containing protein 5; OMIM: 614161), have been reported in 244 families by literature review, of which 78 with cornea plana, 38 with megalocornea, 67 with keratoconus, and 61 with brittle cornea syndrome. Three variants in KERA were identified in 2 families with cornea plana in our cohort. Moreover, all reported variants in VSX1 were reclassified as likely benign or benign based on several major evidence, including high allelic frequency in gnomAD, presence in unaffected individuals in in-house data set, and relatively tolerated by multiple computational prediction tools. Misinterpreted variants in VSX1 has been detected in up to 3.13% of the general population.This study delineates the genetic and clinical landscape of cornea plana, megalocornea, keratoconus and brittle cornea syndrome for the first time. The pathogenicity of VSX1 variants could not be confirmed, making VSX1 an unlikely candidate gene for keratoconus. Correct classification of genes like VSX1 is critical in the era of genomic medicine.Copyright © 2026 Molecular Vision.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41879524 is a review article
The molecular control and ancestral state of dorsal-ventral patterning within spiralians remain unclear due to the remarkable diversity across species. Here we present a chromosome-level genome for the brachiopod Lingula anatina and apply functional transcriptomics to study dorsal-ventral patterning under BMP signalling control. We uncover asymmetrical activation of BMP signalling at the dorsal side of the gastrula, governed by ventral chordin expression and a 'seesaw' of BMP ligands. Using small-molecule drugs and recombinant proteins, we show that high BMP activity inhibits genes typically associated with neural patterning during gastrula and larval stages, similar to deuterostomes and non-spiralian protostomes. Our findings suggest deep conservation of this mechanism across all three major bilaterian clades, supported by striking similarities in BMP-regulated gene sets between brachiopods and Xenopus. We argue that the spiralian ancestor retained the ancestral bilaterian mechanism, although downstream network components have undergone developmental system drift.© 2026. The Author(s).
Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) in multi-condition experiments enables the systematic assessment of treatment effects. Analyzing scRNA-seq data relies on linear dimensionality reduction (DR) methods like principal component analysis (PCA). These methods decompose high-dimensional gene expression profiles into interpretable factor representations and prototypical expression patterns (components). However, integrating study covariates within linear DR frameworks remains a challenging task. We present scPCA, a flexible DR framework that jointly models cellular heterogeneity and conditioning variables, allowing it to recover an integrated factor representation and reveal transcriptional changes across conditions and components of the decomposition. We show that scPCA extracts an interpretable latent representation by analyzing unstimulated and IFNß-treated PBMCs and show its utility in mitigating batch effects. We examine age-related changes in rodent lung cell populations, uncovering a previously unreported surge in Ccl5 expression in T cells. We illustrate how scPCA may be employed to identify coordinated transcriptional changes across multiple time-points in depolarized visual cortex neurons. Finally, we show that scPCA elucidates transcriptional shifts in CRISPR-Cas9 chordin knockout zebrafish single-cell data despite large difference cell abundance across conditions. scPCA is a general method applicable beyond scRNA-seq to other high-dimensional datasets.© 2026. European Molecular Biology Laboratories.
Small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) have drawn particular attention for their ability to transiently and sequence-specifically silence target genes, not only for systemic but also for localized application. For bone regeneration, targeting inhibitory regulators by siRNAs offers opportunities to improve osteogenic-angiogenic coupling. Conventional experimental models often oversimplify this interaction as they fail to capture these multicellular tissue dynamics. To address this, we established a human three-dimensional co-culture model composed of osteogenic and vascular microtissues embedded in fibrin hydrogels to investigate siRNA effects on microtissue interaction. Local siRNA delivery to microtissues was achieved by oligomer-stabilized calcium phosphate nanoparticles (CaP-NP) loaded onto cross-linked gelatin microparticles (cGM). siRNA/CaP-NP-loaded cGM were assembled with human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) to microtissues. This approach was demonstrated by silencing two antagonists with distinct expression profiles: Chordin, a low-abundance BMP inhibitor, and WWP-1, a highly expressed E3 ligase. Only Chordin siRNA improved the osteogenic-vascular cross-talk, whereas WWP-1 siRNA effects were limited to osteogenic effects. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) supported these results. We demonstrate that this co-culture platform permits systematic investigation of siRNA-mediated modulation of osteogenic-endothelial interactions, offering a relevant human model for preselecting therapeutic siRNA targets to advance vascularized bone tissue regeneration.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Healthcare Materials published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Tunicates are the sister group to vertebrates within the chordate phylum, yet unlike other chordate groups, they evolved a biphasic lifecycle alternating between motile larvae and sessile adults. The papillae of most tunicate larvae are the key sensory-adhesive organ regulating their settlement and metamorphosis. The papillae are nearly always arranged as a group of three morphologically identical organs that arise from an anterior neural plate border region nested between ventral epidermis and more dorsal/posterior neural tube progenitors. Due to their embryonic origin and molecular signatures, this anterior border has been evolutionarily linked to vertebrate placode regions. It was previously shown that the specification, patterning, and morphogenesis of the embryonic papilla region all depend on BMP signaling, though downstream mechanisms remain poorly understood. Here we show that the NKX2-3/5/6 ortholog NK4 is a key transcription factor that acts downstream of BMP signaling to pattern the papillae in the Ciona embryo. We present evidence that NK4 is activated by BMP signaling and encodes a transcriptional repressor that is required to restrict the expression of the papilla regulatory gene Foxg to three cell clusters that give rise to the three papillae. Loss of NK4 function results in the formation of a single large papilla. In contrast, overexpression of NK4 represses Foxg, eliminating the papillae. We also show that the expression of NK4 is restricted dorsally by the BMP antagonist Chordin, while the ventrally-expressed transcription factor Msx alleviates the repressive effect of NK4, potentially allowing for the characteristic tripartite patterning of the papillae.
Sarcopenia is an age-related skeletal muscle disorder characterized by progressive decline in muscle mass, strength, and physical performance, leading to frailty, disability, falls, and increased mortality. Although its pathogenesis is multifactorial, growing evidence indicates that vitamin B complex deficiency contributes to muscle deterioration through interconnected metabolic and signaling pathways. This narrative review summarizes current evidence regarding the roles of B vitamins in skeletal muscle biology and their potential contribution to sarcopenia. Vitamin B deficiency impairs mitochondrial energy metabolism by reducing cofactor availability and adenosine triphosphate production, thereby increasing oxidative stress and chronic inflammation. These disturbances may trigger endoplasmic reticulum stress and the integrated stress response, leading to activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4)-dependent induction of growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF15) and fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) expression. Collectively, these changes disrupt protein homeostasis, suppress anabolic signaling, impair neuromuscular function, and alter myokine secretion by reducing anabolic mediators while increasing catabolic and inflammatory myokines, thereby accelerating muscle loss and functional decline. Current evidence is the strongest for vitamins B6, B9, and B12, whereas mechanistic and clinical data for B2, B3, B5, and B7 remain limited. Overall, vitamin B deficiency can be viewed as a modifiable biological contributor to sarcopenia. Well-designed prospective studies and randomized clinical trials are required to clarify causality, validate biomarkers, and determine whether targeted vitamin B supplementation can enhance exercise- and nutrition-based strategies for preserving muscle health in older adults.
Fibroblast growth factor 21 (Fgf21) is a member of the endocrine subfamily of fibroblast growth factors. In mammals, FGF21 regulates glucose and lipid metabolism, and energy balance. Fgf21 was recently demonstrated to stimulate feed intake and regulate energy balance in zebrafish. The physiological mechanisms that regulate energy balance are tightly interlinked with reproduction. As a first step to extend our original findings on Fgf21 and energy balance, this research aimed to determine whether Fgf21 regulates the reproductive axis in zebrafish. Using quantitative PCR, we demonstrate the expression of fgf21, its receptor fgfr1c, and co-receptor β-klotho; and FGF21-like immunoreactivity (immunohistochemistry) in the zebrafish ovary and liver cells. These results suggest local production of FGF21 and possible actions within the ovary. Single intraperitoneal (IP) injection of 1, 10, or 100 ng/g bodyweight FGF21 significantly (ANOVA, P < 0.05) upregulated reproductive hormone genes in the brain; gonadotropin-releasing hormone isoforms (sgnrh/cgnrh-III) and kisspeptin (kiss1), and gonads; aromatase (cyp19a1a) and gonadotropin receptors (fshr, lhr) that are critical for reproductive success. FGF21 significantly (ANOVA, P < 0.05) upregulated vitellogenin transcript levels and total vitellogenin concentration (ELISA) in zebrafish liver cells at 1 h and 24 h post-incubation, respectively. Lastly, at 100 ng/mL, FGF21 induced (ANOVA P < 0.05) oocyte maturation in vitro (determined by germinal vesicle breakdown quantification). These results support a very strong positive role for Fgf21 in the reproductive endocrine axis of zebrafish.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a common neurodegenerative disease in the elderly. ADCYAP1 encodes pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (PACAP), which can exert neuroprotective effects in neurodegenerative diseases. This study aims to probe the specific function of ADCYAP1 in AD.In this experimental study, brain tissue samples from AD patients and healthy controls were collected to assess ADCYAP1 expression. APP/PS-1 transgenic mice were utilised as an AD mouse model along with amyloid beta (Aβ)-induced PC12 cells as an AD cell model. ADCYAP1 expression in the AD mice was determined by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and Western blot. An IF assay was employed to test Aβ deposition and microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) expression (a neuron marker). Behavioural tests, including the Morris water maze (MWM) and footprint tests, were performed to evaluate cognitive impairment and motor ability. Cell apoptosis was determined using the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate-nick end labelling (TUNEL) assay. Western blot was utilised to test the expression of autophagy-related genes, including LC3 and beclin1. The expressions of transcription factors involved in neuronal differentiation was assessed by RTqPCR.ADCYAP1 expression was significantly downregulated in the brain tissues of AD patients and mice. ADCYAP1 overexpression reduced Aβ deposition and enhanced MAP2 expression in the AD mice. ADCYAP1 overexpression effectively improved cognitive impairment and mobility decline in the AD mice. ADCYAP1 upregulation inhibited neuronal apoptosis and autophagy both in vivo and in vitro. ADCYAP1 upregulated the expression of neuronal differentiationrelated factors [transforming growth factor β (TGFβ), early growth response 1 (Egr1), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21), and insulin-like growth factor 1 (Igf1)] in the AD models.ADCYAP1 inhibits neuronal apoptosis and autophagy to improve AD progression in APP/PS-1 mice and Aβ-induced P12 cells.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42538483 is a review article
Aging-associated neuroinflammation is a major contributor to cognitive decline, and exercise is an effective non-pharmacological intervention against it. However, the molecular mechanisms linking peripheral adaptations to exercise with central neuroprotection in the aged brain remain incompletely understood. In this study, using aged male C57BL/6J mice subjected to 16-week treadmill exercise, we show that aerobic exercise improves cognitive function and attenuates hippocampal neuroinflammation. Through bioinformatic analysis, we identified fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) as an exercise-induced yet aging-suppressed hepatokine. Notably, hepatic FGF21 knockdown eliminated the capacity of exercise to enhance hippocampal mitophagy, along with its beneficial effects on cognition and neuroinflammation. Pharmacological blockade of mitophagy recapitulated the loss of FGF21 function, similarly abolishing the exercise-induced cognitive improvements and attenuation of neuroinflammation. These findings suggest that the neuroprotective effects of FGF21 may be mediated through the promotion of mitophagy. Mechanistically, FGF21 activated the AMPK-transcription factor EB (TFEB) axis in microglia to restore lysosomal function and mitophagy. Restoration of microglial mitophagy was accompanied by reduced cytosolic mtDNA accumulation and attenuated cGAS-STING-driven neuroinflammation in the aged hippocampus. Together, our findings reveal a liver-brain axis through which exercise-induced hepatic FGF21 reshapes microglial homeostasis in the aging brain, and identify FGF21 as a potential therapeutic target for age-related cognitive decline.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42527005 is a review article
Although glucose levels are routinely used in the diagnosis and management of diabetes, their relevance in non-diabetic individuals remains underexplored. Considering the mediating role of fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21), this study examined the associations between plasma markers of glucose metabolism and blood pressure as well as vascular health in a population-based sample.In 228 non-diabetic adults from the MEGA study, multivariable linear regression models were used to examine the associations of fasting glucose, two-hour glucose levels following an oral glucose tolerance test, and HbA1c with blood pressure (BP) parameters, pulse wave velocity, augmentation index (AIx), peripheral augmentation index (pAIx), and central aortic pressure. Effect modifications of age, sex, and BMI and the mediation mechanism of FGF21 were investigated. Two-hour glucose levels were positively associated with systolic BP [β = 2.23; 95% CI (0.29; 4.17); P = 0.024], mean arterial pressure [β = 1.70; 95% CI (0.07; 3.34); P = 0.042], diastolic BP [β = 1.48; 95% CI (0.06; 2.91); P = 0.041], and AIx [β = 0.96; 95% CI (0.06; 1.86); P = 0.037] before but not after adjusting for multiple testing. Furthermore, there was an association with systolic BP among non-obese individuals and with pAIx in participants younger than 40 years. No notable mediation effects of FGF21 were found in any of the associations.In this population-based sample of non-diabetic adults, higher post-challenge glucose levels showed suggestive associations with blood pressure and vascular function, particularly in non-obese individuals and younger participants. However, these associations did not remain statistically significant after correction for multiple testing, indicating that the findings should be interpreted cautiously.© 2026 Zakic, Meisinger, Linseisen and Freuer.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42517594 is a review article
Renal fibrosis is a representative pathological trait of renal aging and chronic kidney disease. However, the regulatory mechanisms of histone deacetylation in renal fibrosis remain unclear. A mouse renal fibrosis model was constructed using the unilateral ureteric obstruction method, and HK2 cells treated with TGF‑β were used to create a renal fibrosis cell model. Low expression of Klotho in renal fibrosis is associated with histone deacetylase 3 (HDAC3)‑mediated histone deacetylation. After TGF‑β treatment, H3K9ac and Klotho binding was markedly decreased, while H3K9ac was enriched in the Klotho group after the addition of the HDAC3 inhibitor. Further experiments demonstrated that HDAC3 binding activates transcription factor 3, inhibits Klotho transcription and promotes cellular renal fibrosis. The absence of Klotho may activate the Wnt/β‑catenin and NF‑κB pathways to promote oxidative stress and inflammation, thereby exacerbating the fibrotic process. HDAC3 binds to ATF3 to transcriptionally repress Klotho, leading to activation of the Wnt/β‑catenin and NF‑κB pathways and exacerbation of renal fibrosis.
Klotho is an anti-aging protein involved in phosphate homeostasis, oxidative stress regulation, and tissue regeneration. Although circulating Klotho levels decline with chronological aging, its response to acute disuse- induced skeletal muscle alterations remains unclear. In this experimental study, sixteen male Wistar rats (3 months old) were randomly assigned to a control group (n = 8) or an intermittent hindlimb unloading group (3 h/day for 15 consecutive days) (n = 8). Skeletal muscle morphology was evaluated in the extensor digitorum longus (EDL) and soleus muscles using hematoxylin-eosin staining, and muscle fiber cross-sectional area (CSA) was quantified with ImageJ software. Interstitial connective tissue changes were qualitatively assessed using Masson's trichrome staining, and serum Klotho concentrations were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Intermittent unloading induced histological features consistent with early disuse-associated muscle remodeling in both EDL and soleus muscles, accompanied by a modest reduction in muscle fiber CSA compared with controls. Serum Klotho levels were significantly lower in the unloading group (7.44 ± 0.54 vs 8.21 ± 0.81, p = 0.045), and a moderate positive correlation was observed between circulating Klotho concentrations and mean muscle fiber CSA (r = 0.58, p = 0.02). Mild interstitial connective tissue expansion was qualitatively noted in the soleus muscle following unloading. These findings suggest that short-term intermittent hindlimb unloading in young adult rats is associated with reduced circulating Klotho levels and mild skeletal muscle remodeling. Serum Klotho may represent a candidate biomarker of early disuse-associated muscle alterations; however, further studies are required to confirm its clinical applicability. These results may have potential implications for orthopedic conditions characterized by immobilization, including fracture treatment, casting, and postoperative rehabilitation.
Chronic morphine consumption induces oxidative stress and renal dysfunction, effects that may be exacerbated by aging-related declines in adaptive capacity. Regular endurance exercise enhances antioxidant defense and mitochondrial regulation; however, its ability to counteract morphine-induced renal alterations across different stages of aging remains insufficiently characterized.Male wistar rats, categorized as young and aged based on chronological age and body weight, were allocated to control, morphine, exercise, and morphine plus exercise groups within each age category. Morphine was administered via drinking water for four weeks. Concurrently, animals in the exercise groups performed moderate-intensity continuous training on a treadmill. At study completion, serum and renal tissues were collected for assessment of oxidative stress markers (MDA, TAC, SOD), MPO, renal function indices (BUN and creatinine), and renal expression of sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) and Klotho, Mitochondrial compatibility markers (Citrate synthase activity and TFAM).Chronic morphine exposure was associated with increased oxidative stress markers and decreased antioxidant capacity in kidney tissue, and simultaneously increased serum urea and creatinine levels in young and old mice, indicating impaired renal functional status. Chronic morphine administration also decreased SIRT1 and Klotho levels in young and old animals. In contrast, 4 weeks of endurance training improved markers of mitochondrial adaptation, oxidative balance, and renal function, which were associated with increased expression of SIRT1 and Klotho in kidney tissue. These changes could indicate a potential link between exercise training and molecular pathways involved in the regulation of oxidative stress and renal homeostasis. However, these findings suggest an association, and causal or mechanistic interpretations will require further investigation in future studies.These findings indicate that endurance training is associated with more favorable renal biomarker profiles in the context of chronic opioid exposure.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42547381 is a review article
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD), the leading cause of end-stage renal disease, involves injury across multiple renal compartments. Autophagy dysregulation is a key pathogenic mechanism and may reduce Klotho, a renoprotective protein diminished in DKD. This study evaluated whether bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), combined with empagliflozin and calorie restriction, could modulate autophagy and preserve Klotho expression in DKD. Male BTBRob/ob mice, a leptin-deficient model that develops diabetes and DKD in a progressive manner, were assigned to experimental groups and euthanized at 14-15 or 18-20 weeks. Kidney tissues were analyzed by qPCR, Western blot, and immunohistochemistry. MSCs therapy improved hyperglycemia in a time-dependent manner (p < 0.0001), decreased albuminuria, and modestly improved eGFR, though weight gain persisted. Treatment modulated LC3 protein expression in cortical and medullary regions (p < 0.05), suggesting attenuation of early autophagy hyperactivation. It also helped maintain Klotho expression, correlating with reduced oxidative stress (p < 0.05). Overall, MSCs combined with empagliflozin and calorie restriction show promise as a translational approach for DKD, warranting further long-term preclinical studies.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1210/jendso/bvag140.].© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society.
Post-COVID-19 syndrome is a major long-term sequela of severe SARS-CoV-2 infection, potentially involving persistent angiogenic and thromboinflammatory dysfunction, though long-term biomarker behavior remains unclear.To evaluate the evolution of angiogenic and thromboinflammatory biomarkers in post-COVID-19 syndrome patients.This ambispective cohort study was conducted at the National Institute of Respiratory Diseases in Mexico City. Thirty-two adults hospitalized for severe or critical COVID-19 in 2020 were followed for three and a half years. Paired plasma samples were collected during hospitalization and at long-term follow-up. Endothelial dysfunction markers included soluble P-selectin, vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2, vascular endothelial growth factor D, and angiopoietin-1. Hemostasis was assessed by prothrombin time. Acute-phase proteins alpha-2-macroglobulin and haptoglobin were measured via immunoassay. Persistent symptoms were documented at follow-up.At three and a half years, persistent symptoms were common: fatigue in sixty-five point 6%, dyspnea in sixty-two point 5%, and concentration difficulties in sixty-five point 6%. Vascular endothelial growth factor D and angiopoietin-1 remained elevated. Alpha-2-macroglobulin stayed high, and prothrombin time was prolonged in a subset of patients.Severe COVID-19 survivors show sustained angiogenic dysregulation and thromboinflammatory imbalance. Elevated vascular endothelial growth factor D and angiopoietin-1 indicate ongoing angiogenic perturbations, while increased alpha-2-macroglobulin and prolonged prothrombin time reflect persistent coagulation disturbances. These biomarkers may help identify long-term vascular alterations in post-COVID-19 syndrome.© 2026. The Author(s).
Knee osteoarthritis (KOA) is the most common joint disorder and causes pain and functional limitation. Patients who are refractory to conservative treatment or unsuitable for surgery owing to advanced age or comorbidities have limited options. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is implicated in synovitis, angiogenesis and pain in KOA. microRNA (miRNA) based therapies have recently attracted attentions. This study aimed to investigate whether intra-articular delivery of VEGF-targeting miRNA can reduce synovitis and pain.Human synovial sarcoma cell line HS-SY-II was used for screening of VEGF-targeting miRNAs and primary synovial fibroblasts derived from KOA patients was used for confirmation of the efficacy. miRNA mimics were transfected and VEGF production was quantified. In vivo analyses, KOA was induced by anterior cruciate ligament transection and medial meniscectomy (ACLT model). Wistar rats were randomly allocated to 5 groups in 2 cohorts (n = 5 per group per cohort): normal (no ACLT), ACLT + negative control miRNA (NC), ACLT + miR-126-3p, ACLT + miR-140-5p, and ACLT + a combination of miR-126-3p and miR-140-5p (miR-Mix). miRNA mimics were injected intra-articularly. Hindlimb weight-bearing was assessed using incapacitance tester. Synovitis and cartilage degeneration were evaluated histologically. VEGF levels in synovial fluid, synovium and cartilage were quantified by Simple Western analysis. Non-parametric tests and repeated-measures analyses were performed, with p < 0.05 considered statistically significant.Combination of miR-126-3p and miR-140-5p suppressed VEGF production in HS-SY-II cells than either miRNA alone and the suppressive activity on VEGF production was confirmed in primary synovial fibroblasts from KOA patients. In ACLT rats, synovial VEGF levels were increased in NC group compared with normal rats and tended to be lower in all miRNA-treated groups. Hindlimb weight-bearing ratios were reduced to about 30% after ACLT and remained low in the NC group, whereas they gradually improved in the miR-126-3p and miR-140-5p monotherapy groups and almost recovered in the miR-Mix group. At final time point, weight-bearing ratio was significantly higher in miR-Mix group than NC group. Histologically, Krenn scores were tend to lower in miR-126-3p and miR-Mix groups than NC group, indicating amelioration of synovitis, whereas OARSI histopathology scores for femoral cartilage did not differ significantly among groups and tended to be higher in miR-treated groups. There was a strong negative correlation between Krenn synovitis score and hindlimb weight-bearing ratio (Spearman's ρ = -0.7, p < 0.001).Intra-articular administration of VEGF-suppressive miR-Mix ameliorated synovitis and pain-related behaviour. In highly unstable traumatic model, however, structural protection of articular cartilage was not observed and cartilage degeneration even tended to be worse in miR-treated groups, possibly due to increased weight-bearing following pain relief.These findings suggest intra-articular delivery of VEGF-suppresive miRNAs may represent novel analgesic strategies for KOA by reducing synovitis within joint. miRNA-based modulation of VEGF production could potentially be translated into future disease-modifying and analgesic treatments, however further studies using non-traumatic KOA models, safety evaluation and clarifying molecular mechanisms are required.© 2026 The Authors.
We report a case of pulmonary artery intimal sarcoma successfully treated with surgical resection followed by weekly paclitaxel. The tumor harbored a tumor protein p53 mutation, amplifications of epidermal growth factor receptor, platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha, and KIT, and focal positivity for mouse double minute 2.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Case Reports published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Pancreatic islet transplantation can restore insulin production in patients with severe diabetes, but donor material is scarce, and early engraftment is constrained by inflammatory and mechanical stress and a prolonged avascular phase, during which oxygen and nutrient delivery are limited by diffusion. Revascularization relies primarily on stress-induced vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A), prolonging metabolic compromise, increasing autophagic burden, and rendering grafts vulnerable to secondary stress. Accelerating vascular integration during this time window is therefore critical for graft health. We show that β-cell-targeted aptamer-VEGF-A small activating RNA (saRNA) chimeras selectively induce robust VEGF-A expression in mouse and human islets independently of hypoxia- or nutrient-stress pathways, without activating autophagy or stress-responsive genes. In vivo, chimera-primed islets transplanted into anterior chamber and kidney capsule models exhibited accelerated vascular migration, earlier perfusion, and faster resolution of LC3-dependent autophagic stress without altering endpoint vascular density. Functionally, marginal-mass mouse and human grafts restored glucose control more effectively, preserved intra-islet architecture, and delayed hyperglycemia following STZ-induced β-cell loss. The RNA chimera's modular architecture of RNA chimeras allows transient, tissue-adaptable transcriptional activation across species and cell sources. These findings establish that brief, ex vivo RNA-mediated priming preconditions islets to withstand early engraftment stress, enhancing vascular integration and functional outcomes. This scalable, stress-independent strategy may lower the minimum effective transplant mass and expand access to cellular therapies for diabetes.© 2026. The Author(s).
Pediatric gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) are rare, often lacking KIT or platelet-derived growth factor receptor-alpha (PDGFRA) mutations and driven by succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) deficiency. We report four pediatric patients (three females and one male) managed over a 19-year period. Two female patients had SDH-deficient tumors; one suffered metastatic relapse, illustrating the recurrent clinical course of this subtype. Of the two remaining cases, one SDH-intact female remains in remission 8 years post-diagnosis. The male patient demonstrated imatinib resistance but responded to sunitinib, facilitating gastrectomy. Despite a local recurrence managed by secondary wedge resection, he remains in remission. Comprehensive molecular profiling is essential for navigating GIST's clinical heterogeneity.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Bevacizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody against vascular endothelial growth factor A. Its long half-life and low volume of distribution allow circulating drug to persist in the body for weeks, which becomes clinically relevant when urgent or emergent surgery is needed. Because bevacizumab is largely intravascular, therapeutic plasma exchange (TPE) is attractive, though published experience is limited. We describe four adults who underwent TPE to facilitate surgery or postoperative wound healing after bevacizumab exposure: two with glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) before craniotomy, one with GBM after bowel resection with primary anastomosis, and one with metastatic rectal adenocarcinoma before craniotomy for a hemorrhagic brain mass. Patients received one to three sessions with albumin replacement, with fresh frozen plasma added in one case. No postoperative hemorrhage or delayed wound healing occurred. These cases support a practical role for TPE when residual bevacizumab exposure remains relevant and awaiting spontaneous clearance is not feasible.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Cannabidiol (CBD), a major non-psychoactive phytocannabinoid derived from Cannabis sativa L., has shown therapeutic potential in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). However, the mechanisms by which CBD modulates synovial angiogenesis remain unclear.This study aimed to investigate whether CBD attenuates RA progression by suppressing synovial angiogenesis and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms.An adjuvant-induced arthritis (AIA) rat model was established to evaluate the therapeutic effects of CBD in vivo using arthritis scoring, micro-CT, and histopathological, immunohistochemical, and immunofluorescence analyses. In vitro, cytotoxicity was determined using the CCK-8 assay, followed by evaluations of CBD's direct effects on the proliferation, migration, invasion, and inflammatory responses of RA fibroblast-like synoviocytes (RA-FLS) were evaluated, alongside Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) for cytotoxicity screening. Furthermore, the paracrine regulation of angiogenesis was assessed using a conditioned medium (CM) transfer system from hypoxia-stimulated RA-FLS applied to human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Molecular mechanisms were analyzed via Western blotting, RT-qPCR, ELISA, co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), molecular docking, and targeted proteasome inhibition (MG132).In vivo, CBD (5 and 10 mg/kg) treatment markedly alleviated joint inflammation, synovial angiogenesis, and structural bone destruction in AIA rats. In vitro, non-cytotoxic concentrations of CBD (2.4-4.8 μM) significantly suppressed aberrant RA-FLS proliferation, migration, invasion, and pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion. Mechanistically, CBD abrogated the hypoxia-induced accumulation of hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) protein in RA-FLS without significantly altering HIF1A mRNA expression. This reduction was effectively reversed by MG132. Co-IP and molecular docking analyses revealed that CBD directly enhances the polyubiquitination of HIF-1α through stable structural interactions, driving a ubiquitin-proteasome-dependent degradation mechanism. Consequently, CBD dose-dependently decreased the extracellular secretion of vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) and angiopoietin-2 (ANG-2) from RA-FLS. Functionally, CM from CBD-treated RA-FLS disrupted the pro-angiogenic paracrine crosstalk-independent of direct CBD carryover-significantly impairing HUVEC migration, capillary-like tube formation, and downstream VEGFR2 (Tyr1175) phosphorylation.CBD attenuates RA pathogenesis not only by directly suppressing RA-FLS hyperactivity but also by severing the pro-angiogenic paracrine crosstalk between RA-FLS and endothelial cells. These effects are driven by the ubiquitin-proteasome-dependent degradation of HIF-1α in RA-FLS via direct structural engagement, which depletes VEGFA/ANG-2 production and subsequent endothelial VEGFR2 activation. These findings highlight CBD as a promising disease-modifying anti-angiogenic therapeutic agent for RA.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
The functional and molecular definition of progenitors giving rise to blood vessel endothelium in vivo remains disputed. Upon investigating the overlap of seemingly divergent reports currently defining putative endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) using single-cell RNA-sequencing and flow cytometry, Protein C Receptor (PROCR) and Platelet-Derived Growth Factor Receptor Alpha (PDGFRA) largely overlapped with previously characterized murine aorta's CD34+CD31low endovascular progenitors (EVPs). Functional assays and lineage tracing in homeostatic aorta and excisional wounds demonstrated increased clonogenic capacity, engraftment potential, and ability to form differentiated endothelial (D) cells of PROCR+ PDGFRA+ EPCs, termed as refined endothelial progenitor cell (rEPC), as compared to PROCRnegPDGFRAneg EVPs. Similar PROCR and PDGFRA expression in normal human aorta, and increased clonogenic capacity of CD34+CD31lowPROCR+ endothelial cells from freshly isolated human term placenta were observed as compared to controls. Functional validation of human rEPCs is supported by PROCR enrichment, while PDGFRA co‑expression in human endothelial progenitor-like cells is supported at the transcriptomic level only. Thus, overlapping PROCR and PDGFRA expression in EVPs narrows the population with true functional progenitor capacity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Preeclampsia is a complex disorder arising from abnormal placentation and maternal vascular maladaptation. Uterine artery Doppler is widely used to assess placental perfusion in early pregnancy. However, in late pregnancy its role remains unclear.To investigate the mechanisms linking uterine artery Doppler findings at 35-36 weeks' gestation with preeclampsia by quantifying the contribution of placental angiogenic, hemodynamic, and vascular pathways.This prospective observational study included 11,962 singleton pregnancies undergoing routine assessment at 35+0 to 36+6 weeks' gestation in a tertiary center in London, UK, between 2021 and 2024. Uterine artery pulsatility index, placental angiogenic biomarkers [placental growth factor (PlGF) and soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase-1 (sFlt-1)], hemodynamic indices [ophthalmic artery peak systolic velocity ratio], and arterial stiffness [carotid to femoral pulse wave velocity (cfPWV)] were measured. Mediation analysis quantified indirect (average causal mediation effect) and direct effects. Multivariable logistic regression assessed independent associations with preeclampsia.Preeclampsia occurred in 349 (2.9%) pregnancies. Mediation analysis demonstrated that placental angiogenic imbalance accounted for the largest proportion of the association between uterine artery Doppler and preeclampsia, with PlGF mediating approximately 40% and sFlt-1 approximately 9% of the total effect. The ophthalmic artery ratio mediated approximately 15% of the association. In contrast, cfPWV did not demonstrate significant mediation. In multivariable models incorporating angiogenic, hemodynamic, and vascular parameters, uterine artery Doppler was no longer independently associated with preeclampsia (β=0.11, p=0.13). Higher sFlt-1, higher ophthalmic artery ratio, and increased arterial stiffness were independently associated with increased risk, whereas higher PlGF was strongly protective (all p<0.001).Uterine artery Doppler in late pregnancy appears to reflect biological processes related to placental and hemodynamic dysfunction, predominantly placental.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Staphylococcus infection-associated glomerulonephritis (SAGN) has emerged as the leading cause of infection-related glomerulonephritis (IRGN) in the Western subcontinents, but pathogenesis remains poorly understood in the absence of animal models and detailed molecular mechanisms.To dissect the complex underlying immunopathology, we analyzed formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded kidney biopsy tissues from three patients with SAGN and one normal control kidney (NCK) using single-cell spatial transcriptomics (analyzing a total of 3,993 cell-specific transcriptomes). The SAGN biopsies showed diffuse endocapillary hypercellularity with focal crescents. Following annotation of various cell types, we constructed cell communication networks using CellChat to identify ligand-receptor interactions in normal and SAGN kidneys.Secreted phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1/osteopontin) emerged as the most enriched signaling network in SAGN with markedly increased autocrine and paracrine SPP1-CD44 activity among tubular segments and parietal epithelial cells (PECs). In contrast, SPP1-integrin signaling was mainly observed in healthy control kidneys. Consistent with previous reports, complement pathway activation was detected exclusively in diseased kidneys, with PECs as principal signal receivers, suggesting the potential role in crescent formation. Transcripts for C2, C3, CD55, Factor B, and Factor D showed significant upregulation in SAGN. In contrast, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), angiopoietin-like proteins (ANG PTL), and progranulin/granulin networks exhibited decreased communication probabilities in SAGN versus NCK, suggesting the suppression of protective angiogenic and anti-inflammatory signaling. Immunofluorescence staining for SPP1 showed increased staining in renal tubular segments in SAGN biopsies, supporting our transcriptomic data.SPP1 and complement pathways appear to drive pro-inflammatory responses, while protective VEGF signaling is compromised, providing potential therapeutic targets for this disease.Copyright © 2026 Karaiskos, Santana-Quintero, Bott, Paul, Brodsky, Ayoub, Parikh, Rovin, Nadasdy, Nakhasi, Gannavaram and Satoskar.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42538404 is a review article
Stillbirth rates in pregestational diabetes remain elevated despite advancements in fetal surveillance. Angiogenic biomarkers may be a useful adjunct to identify occult placental function and stratify fetal risk independent of fetal size.To determine the gestational age-specific prevalence of angiogenic biomarker abnormalities, placental growth factor (PlGF) and soluble FMS-like tyrosine kinase 1 (sFlt-1)/PlGF ratio, and their association with perinatal outcomes in pregestational diabetes.A masked prospective cohort study conducted in New Zealand from November 2022 to August 2024, including 40 people with type 1 and 58 with type 2 diabetes. Blood samples for sFlt-1 and PlGF were collected at four-week intervals from 20-36 weeks' gestation, immediately frozen, and analysed postpartum using Elecsys assays.Two temporal patterns of angiogenic biomarker abnormalities were identified: Early-onset, seen in 26% (95%CI 17-35%) of participants, characterised by a second-trimester PlGF <5th centile; and Late-onset, seen in 19% (95%CI 13-28%) of participants, characterised by a third-trimester sFlt-1/PlGF ratio >38 at a median (IQR) 35.9 (34.9-36.6) weeks' gestation. For a composite outcome of preterm birth, preeclampsia, or emergency caesarean section for intrapartum fetal compromise, abnormal angiogenic biomarkers collectively yielded a sensitivity of 86% (95%CI 71-94), specificity of 86% (95%CI 73-93), positive predictive value 82% (95% CI 67-91%), and negative predictive value 89% (95% CI 77-95%); in contrast Delphi fetal growth restriction criteria lacked sensitivity 7% (95%CI 2-20%), present in only 2.3% (1/44) of cases with abnormal angiogenic biomarkers and 5.6% (3/54) with normal biomarkers. Customised birthweight centiles were similar between the normal vs early-onset abnormality groups, [median (IQR) 73 (40-96) vs 84 (35-96); p=0.8] but higher in the late-onset abnormality vs normal group [92 (69-100); adjusted p=0.021].In pregestational diabetes, angiogenic biomarker abnormalities predict adverse perinatal outcomes and signal occult placental dysfunction independent of apparent fetal growth restriction. Evaluation of routine angiogenic biomarker measurement as an adjunct to existing fetal surveillance protocols is warranted.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The measurement of the angiogenic biomarkers placental growth factor (PlGF) and soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase-1 (sFlt-1) are increasingly used to support the prediction and diagnosis of preeclampsia (PE) in routine clinical practice. There are an increasing number of methods available for the analysis of these markers but data showing their analytical comparability is limited.The assays for PlGF and sFlt-1 from Revvity were evaluated and compared against Roche methods that are used in current clinical practice in Oxford. Imprecision and paired analytical comparisons studies were undertaken and data evaluated for numeric agreement and concordance relative to manufacturer recommended rule-in and rule-out thresholds for PE.Imprecision estimates for the Revvity PlGF and sFlt-1 methods calculated from quality control material analysed during the evaluation were between 3.2 and 9.0 CV%. Revvity method precision profiles derived from 581 clinical specimens analysed in duplicate had a median CV% for PlGF of 1.8%, IQR 2.3% and for sFlt-1 a median CV% of 1.1%, IQR 1.5%. Comparison against the Roche PlGF and sFlt-1 methods in 437 clinical specimens showed an overall Passing-Bablok regression relationship for PlGF of y = -23.4 + 0.73x (r = 0.983) and for sFlt-1, y = -87.7 + 0.40x (r = 0.971). However, there was statistically significant (p < 0.0001) concentration dependant relative bias for both methods and the calculated ratio. Concordance of the sFlt-1:PlGF ratio relative to manufacturer specific rule-in and rule-out thresholds was 95.2%.The Revvity methods for PlGF and sFlt-1 are precise and correlate with the Roche methods. However, numeric agreement precludes result interchangeability and the use of common rule-in and rule-out thresholds. The manufacturer specific thresholds should be applied in clinical practice. Further work is required to understand how method differences impact clinical outcomes and their causes.Copyright © 2026 Marr, Cerdeira, Smith, Vatish and James.
Background/Objectives: Angiogenesis in glioblastoma (GBM) is a multifactorial process, and blood-brain barrier disruption enables the detection of circulating mediators. The clinical relevance of circulating placental growth factor (PlGF) in GBM remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the role of PlGF in GBM and its association with disease characteristics and outcomes. Methods: We conducted a prospective observational study on 54 patients with IDH-wildtype GBM. Plasma samples collected at diagnosis and recurrence were analyzed using a multiplex panel of angiogenesis mediators. Associations with clinical, radiological, molecular, and treatment-related variables were assessed, along with survival outcomes. Statistical analysis was performed with R 4.5.0. Results: At baseline, PlGF correlated with multiple angiogenic mediators, including VEGF, IL-6, angiopoietin-1, EGF, FGF, IL-8, and TNF-α. Higher PlGF levels were associated with radiopathological features of tumor biology, including proliferation markers and the FLAIR/contrast enhancement ratio. In high-risk patients (RPA 3-4; n = 33), low baseline PlGF identified a subgroup with significantly longer overall survival (17.6 vs. 8.5 months; log-rank p = 0.031) and retained a protective association in multivariable models. In the overall cohort, this association was weaker and did not reach statistical significance. Exploratory longitudinal analyses suggested an increase in PlGF at recurrence in selected molecular and treatment-defined subgroups, while no association with bevacizumab exposure was observed. Conclusions: Circulating PlGF may reflect tumor biology in GBM and shows prognostic relevance in high-risk patients, where low baseline levels identify a subgroup with improved survival. These findings support PlGF as a candidate circulating biomarker and warrant validation in larger prospective cohorts.
Preeclampsia is a serious pregnancy complication characterised by maternal vascular dysfunction, placental dysfunction, and organ injury, with no effective treatment currently available. Kampo, a system of Japanese traditional medicine comprising standardised herbal formulations, could target pathophysiological pathways driving preeclampsia. We evaluated the effects of select Kampo formulations on markers of preeclampsia using primary human trophoblasts, placental explants, human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs), and uterine microvascular endothelial cells (UtMVECs). Twelve formulations were initially screened in HUVECs, and six formulations advanced for further study. TNFα was used to induce endothelial dysfunction, and angiogenic, antioxidant, inflammatory, and vascular dysfunction markers were assessed. Overall, Kampo formulations had minimal effect on sFlt-1 expression and only modest effects on sFlt-1 secretion by primary human trophoblast. In contrast, several formulations consistently increased placental growth factor (PlGF) expression and secretion, upregulated HMOX1 in trophoblasts, and enhanced PlGF secretion from placental explants. In endothelial cells, Kampo treatment partially reversed TNFα-induced dysfunction, demonstrated by reduced VCAM1 expression, and additional endothelial cell type-dependent effects on ET-1 and inflammatory pathways. These findings indicate that selected Kampo formulations modulate key pathways involved in the pathophysiology underpinning preeclampsia and warrant further investigation as potential therapeutic candidates.
Early pregnancy loss, defined as spontaneous termination of pregnancy before 20 weeks of gestation or fetal weight below 500 g, remains a common obstetric complication. While several etiological factors, such as genetic abnormalities and uterine defects, are established, nearly half of the cases remain unexplained, necessitating exploration of underlying biochemical mechanisms.To evaluate and compare serum levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and placental growth factor (PlGF) in women with early pregnancy loss and healthy pregnant controls of similar gestational age and to assess the association and diagnostic performance of these angiogenic markers.A hospital-based case-control study was conducted involving 60 pregnant women aged 19-45 years with pregnancies of less than 20 weeks' gestation, including 30 cases of early pregnancy loss and 30 healthy pregnant controls with viable intrauterine pregnancies of comparable gestational age. Participants were recruited from the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology of HSK Hospital, Bagalkot, and biochemical analysis was performed at Bharatiya Lingayat Development Educational Association (Deemed to be University) (BLDE [DU]), Vijayapura. Serum VEGF and PlGF levels were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Statistical analysis was performed using IBM Corp. Released 2014. IBM SPSS Statistics for Windows, Version 20. Armonk, NY: IBM Corp., applying chi-square and independent t-tests, with results expressed as mean ± standard deviation (SD). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was performed to assess diagnostic performance and derive optimal cut-off values.Serum VEGF and PlGF levels were significantly reduced in cases compared to controls (p < 0.05), indicating impaired angiogenesis in early pregnancy loss. ROC analysis showed adequate diagnostic performance for VEGF and excellent diagnostic performance for PlGF in differentiating cases from controls within this case-control sample.Reduced serum VEGF and PlGF levels are associated with early pregnancy loss and may serve as adjunctive diagnostic biomarkers for identifying altered angiogenic profiles in affected women after validation in larger prospective studies.Copyright © 2026, BB et al.
Although systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) pregnancy frequently results in small for gestational age (SGA) infants, the understanding of underlying mechanisms is limited. We aimed to identify specific histological patterns of placental injury in SGA in SLE and to explore whether an altered balance of angiogenesis-related proteins precedes this outcome.We prospectively followed 83 SLE and 67 control pregnancies. Placental histological patterns were determined according to the Amsterdam consensus in 63 women with SLE (76%), of whom 10 developed SGA. Soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase 1 (sFlt-1) and placental growth factor (PlGF) in plasma were quantified using LEGENDplex in the first, second and third trimesters.SLE patients remain at risk of having an SGA infant, and their placentas and infants had lower weight compared to controls. In placentas from women with SLE and SGA, maternal vascular malperfusion lesions were common (80% vs. 30% in controls; p = 0.010), but inflammatory lesions were not observed. Women with maternal vascular malperfusion gave birth to infants with lower birth weight compared to women without these lesions. The ratio of sFlt-1:PlGF in the third trimester was elevated in women with SLE with an SGA infant.In a prospective cohort of well-controlled SLE patients with low disease activity delivering mostly at term, SGA and small placentas remain common. The increased prevalence of placental malperfusion lesions together with an altered balance of pro- and anti-angiogenic proteins suggests that the role of vascular and angiogenesis-related factors should be further explored in relation to SGA in SLE pregnancy.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Internal Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Association for Publication of The Journal of Internal Medicine.
Diabetic kidney disease remains the major cause of kidney failure. VEGFA neutralizing antibodies also cause kidney disease in normal people. The present studies explored whether endogenous VEGFA deficiency might contribute to DKD.Plasma soluble VEGFR1 (aka sflt1), and the VEGFR1 ligands VEGFA, and placental growth factor (PlGF), were measured human DKD plasma samples from the CREDENCE trial. We also tested effects of VGFB1, a murinized VEGFR1-blocking antibody in the uninephrectomy ReninAAVdb/db DKD mouse including translational endpoints of serum creatinine and overall survival. Histology, transmission electron microscopy and RNA sequencing of mouse kidneys treated with or without VGFB1 or lisinopril were compared.Circulating sFlt1 and PlGF, increased in CREDENCE while intrarenal VEGFA mRNA decreased as GFR declined. VEGFR1 blockade with the VGFB1 mAb improved overall sinistrin clearance, serum creatinine, albuminuria, blood pressure, and kidney structure in uninephrectomy ReninAAVdb/db mice. VGFB1 treatment benefit differentiated from lisinopril by increasing endothelial fenestrea and glycocalyx related genes. Compared to lisinopril, VGFB1 also significantly increased glomerular endothelial genes including Emcn, Esm1, Ehd3 and Exoc3l2.An anti-VEGFR1 antibody restored VEGFA activity, endothelial health, and GFR in severe murine DKD. This effect was via a mechanism distinct from lisinopril.Copyright © 2026 by the American Society of Nephrology.
Intravenous administration of clazosentan, a selective endothelin receptor subtype A antagonist, has been used as an anti-vasospastic agent. This study aimed to investigate whether intrathecal administration of clazosentan prevents neuroinflammation and affects lymphatic clearance of hemoglobin in a mouse model of acute subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH).Male C57BL/6 mice (n=109) underwent prechiasmatic cisternal injection models of SAH or sham models. From 30 minutes post-modeling, mice randomly received a continuous intracerebroventricular infusion of saline or clazosentan (1, 0.2, and 0.04 μg in 192 μL of saline; defined as 50%, 10%, and 2% of the clinically achievable blood concentration, respectively) at a rate of 8 μL/h for 24 hours. The intervention effects were assessed by neurobehavioral testing, SAH grading, and immunohistochemical staining at 24 and 48 hours, and Western blotting at 24 hours post-modeling.Clazosentan treatment did not influence SAH grading but showed a dose-dependent trend toward improved survival in SAH mice. A comparison of saline treatment and 50% clazosentan treatment revealed that clazosentan significantly suppressed post-SAH neurological deterioration, hemoglobin infiltration into the brain, and induction of ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1 and tenascin-C in the brain, and significantly upregulated vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-3 in the brain without affecting vascular endothelial growth factor-C levels. When comparing the effects of different clazosentan doses, an inhibitory effect on neuroinflammation was observed up to 10% clazosentan. At 48 hours post-modeling, clazosentan administration dose-dependently inhibited neurological deterioration, hemoglobin infiltration into the brain and activation of perivascular macrophages and microglia, and increased hemoglobin deposition in the deep cervical lymph nodes of SAH mice without intracranial lymphatic vessel proliferation.This study first showed that intrathecal administration of clazosentan can suppress early brain injury in terms of neuroinflammation at cerebrospinal fluid concentrations one-tenth of the clinically achievable blood concentrations, associated with enhanced lymphatic drainage of hemoglobin.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42553521 is a review article
Meningeal (dural) lymphatics are essential for cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) clearance to cervical lymph nodes, yet the precise pathway is incompletely understood. Using a multifaceted approach in mice, we examined tracer dynamics and the CSF outflow pathway from the subarachnoid space (SAS) to the nasal mucosa and identified a discrete arachnoid region surrounding the olfactory bulbs with abundant fenestrations. Similar arachnoid fenestrations were found in cynomolgus monkeys. Fluorescent tracers in the SAS passed through arachnoid fenestrations into dural lymphatics, which traversed the cribriform plate foramina, joined the nasal lymphatics, and drained to the cervical lymph nodes. In aged mice, the known reduction in CSF outflow was accompanied by lymphatic atrophy in the olfactory dura and nasal mucosa and by fewer arachnoid fenestrations and smaller cribriform plate foramina. Importantly, the lymphatics and CSF clearance were restored to normal by intranasal delivery of vascular endothelial growth factor-C (VEGF-C), thereby documenting the reversibility of the aging-related impairment in CSF clearance.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Lymph node metastasis is a critical determinant of breast cancer prognosis, yet the specific microenvironmental cytokines driving this process remain elusive. This study aims to identify key prognostic cytokines linking nodal metastasis to tumor microenvironment (TME) remodeling and to evaluate their clinical utility.A predefined panel of 176 microenvironmental genes was evaluated using differential expression analysis and the Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) algorithm on the TCGA-BRCA cohort to identify optimal predictors of nodal metastasis. Prognostic value was assessed via Kaplan-Meier, subgroup, and multivariate Cox regression analyses, and validated across five independent GEO datasets. Immune infiltration and therapeutic potential were evaluated using Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA), CIBERSORT deconvolution, pharmacogenomic screening, and molecular docking simulations.Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor C (VEGFC) emerged as the top biomarker significantly upregulated in node-positive tumors. Multivariate analysis confirmed that VEGFC acts as a robust, independent predictor of poor relapse-free survival (RFS). Notably, subgroup analyses revealed this prognostic penalty is exceptionally pronounced in hormone receptor-positive Luminal A and B subtypes. Mechanistically, elevated VEGFC is strongly associated with an immunosuppressive "cold" TME, characterized by reduced cytotoxic CD8+ T-cell infiltration and enriched M2-macrophage polarization across multiple algorithms. Furthermore, pharmacogenomic analyses and docking simulations indicated potential sensitivity to PI3K/AKT inhibitors in VEGFC-high tumors.VEGFC is a robust, independent precision biomarker specifically indicating poor prognosis in Luminal breast cancers. It is significantly associated with an immune-excluded TME, suggesting that targeting the VEGFC axis may offer a novel strategy to reverse immune evasion.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
Leptin, Galectin-1 and Galectin-3 are essential players in tumorigenesis, angiogenesis, and metastasis, but their lymphangiogenic role is unclear. Here, the associations of leptin, Galectin-1 and Galectin-3 with markers of lymphangiogenesis were evaluated in colorectal cancer (CRC).A total of 120 patients with CRC were included in the study. The expressions of leptin, Galectin-1, Galectin-3, and vascular endothelial growth factor- C (VEGF-C) were analyzed in CRC tissue and compared with lymphatic vessel density (LVD). Also, the concentrations of Galectin-1 and Galectin-3 were determined in the sera of CRC patients (n=38).LVD positively correlated with the intensity of leptin or Galectin-1 expression (as defined by intensity score, IS) in tissues. Although there was no significant association between tissue expression of Galectin-3 and LVD, serum Galectin-3 concentrations were markedly decreased in patients with high LVD. The positive correlation was observed between intensity of VEGF-C and leptin expressions. No significant relationship was found between VEGF-C and Galectin-1 expression, while the intensity of VEGF-C expression positively correlated with Galectin-3 expression in tumor tissue. Further, high leptin expression, determined by a total score (sum of percentage score (PS) and IS) > 4, was related to regional lymph node metastasis and TNM stages, indicating a more aggressive CRC phenotype.The results suggest that leptin and Galectin-1 are involved in the formation of new lymphatic vessels in tumor, either dependently or independently of VEGF-C. It seems that high leptin expression reflects regional metastases and progression of CRC.© Acta Gastro-Enterologica Belgica.
The communication between skin and draining lymph nodes is crucial for immune responses to skin insults. Lymphatic vessels play key roles in this communication by transporting antigens from skin to lymph nodes, and mechanisms that compromise dermal lymphatic function can disrupt skin immunity. Here, we show that Langerhans cells (LCs), epidermis-derived antigen-presenting cells, promote dermal lymphatic expansion and phenotype acquisition during early life. This function was mediated by PlGF (placental growth factor) and VEGF-C (vascular endothelial growth factor C), and LCs selectively shaped the transcriptional profile of lymphatic endothelial cells. Compromise of this early-life LC-mediated lymphatic expansion reduced soluble antigen flow to draining lymph nodes and T cell responses in adulthood. Our data identify a tissue-based mechanism by which LCs regulate T cells remotely across time and space and raise the possibility that immune diseases in adulthood could reflect compromise of the LC-lymphatic axis in childhood.
Lymph node (LN) metastasis is a critical indicator of poor prognosis in breast cancer (BC). BC-derived exosomes influence intercellular communication within the tumor microenvironment, driving metastatic progression. However, the precise mechanisms by which exosomes facilitate LN metastasis in BC remain unclear. We performed small RNA sequencing on serum exosomes to identify Piwi-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) associated with BC LN metastasis. Functional investigations of exosomal piR-hsa-28212 included in vitro assays for migration and tube formation of human lymphatic endothelial cells (HLECs), alongside an in vivo footpad-popliteal LN metastasis model. Specific interactions between piR-hsa-28212 and TBX1 (T-box transcription factor 1), as well as TBX1 and VEGF receptor 3 (VEGFR3), were validated through luciferase reporter assays. The stability of TBX1 mRNA was analyzed by actinomycin D assay. RNA pulldown, RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP), and RNA fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) assays were conducted to explore the interaction between piR-hsa-28212 and METTL3. PiR-hsa-28212 was significantly upregulated in serum exosomes of BC patients with LN metastasis. Exosomal piR-hsa-28212 enhanced HLECs migration and tube formation in vitro and promoted lymphangiogenesis and LN metastasis in vivo. Mechanistically, exosomal piR-hsa-28212 transferred from BC cells to HLECs stabilized TBX1 mRNA, thereby upregulating VEGFR3 expression. In BC cells, piR-hsa-28212 directly bound to and stabilized METTL3 protein, modulating N6-methyladenosine (m6A) methylation of vascular endothelial growth factor C (VEGFC) mRNA and consequently increasing VEGFC expression and secretion. Collectively, these findings reveal an exosome-mediated piRNA regulatory mechanism that synergistically amplifies VEGFC/VEGFR3 signaling to drive LN metastasis in BC, highlighting piR-hsa-28212 as a potential therapeutic target. Trial Registration: KYLL-2022-338.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42277828 is a review article
Peritumoral brain edema (PTBE) is an important prognostic factor in meningiomas and may persist after tumor resection. While clinical and radiological predictors of postoperative PTBE resolution are known, the impact of molecular markers remained unclear. The aim of this study was to investigate the association of Forkhead box C1 (FOXC1) expression, as well as radiological and clinical parameters with postoperative PTBE resolution.We conducted a retrospective single-center study with 75 histopathologically confirmed meningiomas. Pre- and postoperative PTBE volumes were quantified using volumetric MRI-based segmentation. Postoperative PTBE resolution was defined as the relative percentage reduction in PTBE volume compared with preoperative baseline. In addition, preoperative MRI datasets were analyzed for radiological tumor characteristics using 3D Slicer. FOXC1 expression was assessed immunohistochemically. Optimal cut-off values were determined using receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curve analysis. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed to identify independent predictors of postoperative PTBE resolution.In multivariate analysis, higher FOXC1 expression was independently associated with greater postoperative PTBE resolution (OR: 6.36, 95% CI: 2.06-19.60; p < 0.001). In addition, larger tumor volume was independently associated with lower PTBE resolution (OR = 0.25, 95% CI: 0.07-0.89, p = 0.029).Higher FOXC1 expression was independently associated with greater postoperative PTBE resolution. These findings require validation in larger independent cohorts before clinical implementation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42252274 is a review article
Eosinophilic chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (ECRSwNP) is characterized by type 2 inflammation, prominent eosinophil accumulation, and enhanced epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Although interleukin (IL)-5 plays a central role in eosinophil differentiation and activation, its involvement in driving EMT in human nasal epithelial cells (HNECs) remains unclear. This study investigated IL-5 receptor α (IL-5Rα)-mediated signaling and EMT profiles in ECRSwNP, aiming to determine whether IL-5-activated eosinophil-like cells promote EMT in HNECs.Nasal tissues from healthy controls, non-ECRSwNP patients, and ECRSwNP patients (n=12 per group) were analyzed using hematoxylin and eosin staining, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, immunohistochemistry, and Western blotting. HL-60 promyelocytic leukemia cells were differentiated into eosinophil-like cells and subsequently stimulated with IL-5. HNECs were cocultured with undifferentiated HL-60 cells, differentiated HL-60 cells, or IL-5-stimulated differentiated HL-60 cells using a Transwell system. Expression of EMT-related markers was assessed by Western blotting and immunofluorescence.ECRSwNP tissues demonstrated markedly increased eosinophil infiltration, elevated IL-4 and IL-5 transcript levels, and significantly higher expression of IL-5Rα, phosphorylated Janus kinase 2 (JAK2), and phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 (STAT5) compared with controls and non-ECRSwNP tissues. EMT-associated changes, characterized by reduced E-cadherin and increased vimentin expression, were most pronounced in ECRSwNP. In vitro, IL-5 stimulation enhanced IL-5Rα expression, activated JAK2/STAT5 signaling, and increased secretion of eosinophil-associated mediators in differentiated HL-60 cells. Co-culture with IL-5-stimulated eosinophil-like cells induced EMT in HNECs, whereas unstimulated HL-60 cells exerted minimal effects.IL-5Rα-mediated signaling is upregulated in ECRSwNP and may contribute to EMT through eosinophil-dependent mechanisms. IL-5-activated eosinophils promote EMT-related changes in HNECs, providing a mechanistic link between type 2 inflammation and epithelial remodeling. These findings suggest that IL-5Rα signaling may represent a potential therapeutic target for modulating tissue remodeling in ECRSwNP.
Thrombotic events are a major morbidity among Philadelphia chromosome-negative myeloproliferative neoplasm (Ph-MPN) patients. There is a lack of data from Kerala regarding the profile of Ph-MPN and the prevalence of thrombosis among these patients.To study the clinical profile, driver mutations, incidence of thrombotic events among Ph-MPN patients, and the response to hydroxyurea therapy.We reviewed the medical records of 84 Ph-MPN patients who were on follow-up from April 2019 to June 2023 in a tertiary care hospital in Kerala.There were 48 polycythemia vera (PV), 16 essential thrombocythemia (ET), 14 primary myelofibrosis (PMF), and six unclassifiable MPN (MPN-u) patients. The incidence of Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) mutation was 96, 62.5, and 79% among PV, ET, and PMF patients, respectively. The incidence of calreticulin (CALR) mutation was 37.5 and 21% among ET and PMF patients, respectively. The incidence of thrombotic events was 23/48 (48%), 7/16 (43.5%), and 6/14 (42.8%) among PV, ET, and PMF patients, respectively. All ET and PMF patients with thrombotic events were JAK2V617F-mutated. Eighty-seven percent of the evaluable patients on hydroxyurea for PV achieved freedom from therapeutic phlebotomies. ET patients who were on hydroxyurea achieved a median platelet count of 4.3 lakhs/µL (3.16-6.08).There is a higher incidence of thrombosis among Ph-MPN patients from Kerala, which needs to be ascertained in a population-based study. JAK2V617F mutation is the major determinant of thrombotic episodes in ET and PMF. Hydroxyurea is an effective cytoreductive therapy in PV and ET.© Journal of the Association of Physicians of India 2026.
Based on the Janus kinase 2(JAK2)/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3(STAT3) pathway, the inhibitory effect and relevant mechanism of astragaloside-Ⅳ(AS-Ⅳ) on cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury(CIRI) in rats were explored. Sixty rats were randomly divided into six groups: sham operation group, model group, low-dose AS-Ⅳ group(10 mg·kg~(-1)), medium-dose AS-Ⅳ group(20 mg·kg~(-1)), high-dose AS-Ⅳ group(30 mg·kg~(-1)), and edaravone group(3 mg·kg~(-1)), with 10 rats per group. Except for the sham operation group, the middle cerebral artery occlusion/reperfusion(MCAO/R) model was established in all other groups. Rats in the drug-administered groups were intraperitoneally injected with the corresponding drugs from 7 d before surgery to 3 d after reperfusion, while the rats in the sham operation groups were given an equal volume of normal saline. Neurological behavior scores of rats were recorded; cerebral infarct volume was measured by 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride(TTC) staining; enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay(ELISA) was used to detect the contents of interleukin-1β(IL-1β), interleukin-6(IL-6), tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), superoxide dismutase(SOD), and malondialdehyde(MDA) in serum; hematoxylin-eosin(HE) staining and Nissl staining were performed to observe the pathological changes of cerebral tissue; the ultrastructure of cells was observed by transmission electron microscope; terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling(TUNEL) was used to detect neuronal apoptosis; immunohistochemical staining was applied to determine the protein expressions of apoptotic proteins B-cell lymphoma/leukemia-2(Bcl-2), and Bcl-2 associated X(Bax); immunofluorescence staining was used to detect the protein expressions of phosphorylated(p)-JAK2 and p-STAT3; western blot was employed to detect the protein expressions of cleaved cysteine aspartate specific protease-3(cleaved caspase-3), Bax, Bcl-2, p-JAK2, JAK2, p-STAT3, and STAT3 proteins. Compared with the sham operation group, the model group showed significant increases in neurological behavior scores, cerebral infarct volume, inflammatory factors(IL-1β, IL-6, and TNF-α), and MDA, a decrease in SOD, upregulated expressions of Bax, cleaved caspase-3, p-JAK2, and p-STAT3, as well as a downregulated expression of Bcl-2. Compared with the model group, groups with each AS-Ⅳ dose can reverse the above indicator changes and promote the nuclear translocation of p-STAT3. In conclusion, AS-Ⅳ can activate the JAK2/STAT3 pathway and inhibit neuronal apoptosis, thereby improving CIRI in rats.
Liver fibrosis is pathologically characterized by excessive extracellular matrix (ECM) deposition induced by diverse etiological factors, which is associated with hepatic stellate cell (HSC) activation and proliferation. B-cell translocation gene 1 (BTG1) contributes to the regulation of cellular proliferation, differentiation, and development. The biological role of BTG1 in HSC activation and liver fibrosis remains incompletely understood.To clarify the regulatory role of BTG1, carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced rat liver fibrosis models and platelet-derived growth factor-BB (PDGF-BB)-activated HSC-T6 cells were used. For in vivo studies, rats were injected with BTG1-overexpressing recombinant adeno-associated virus (AAV). siRNA or overexpression vectors targeting BTG1 were transfected into HSC-T6 cells in vitro, respectively. Rat serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) levels were measured using biochemical assays. Liver histopathological alterations were evaluated by histological staining. 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) assays and flow cytometry were used to assess cell proliferation and apoptosis. Immunohistochemistry, Western blotting, and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) were performed to quantify the levels of α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), collagen I, interleukin-6 (IL-6), and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), as well as proliferation- and apoptosis-related proteins. Furthermore, a specific JAK2 inhibitor was used to further clarify the underlying molecular mechanism.BTG1 was significantly downregulated in CCl4-induced fibrotic liver tissues and activated HSCs. AAV-mediated BTG1 overexpression markedly alleviated liver fibrosis in rats. siRNA-mediated BTG1 knockdown resulted in the significant upregulation of collagen I, α-SMA, IL-6, and TNF-α expression in HSC-T6 cells. BTG1 deficiency enhanced HSC-T6 cell proliferation induced by PDGF-BB as evidenced by increased expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and Ki67, while inhibiting apoptotic death, as evidenced by reduced levels of Bax and cleaved caspase-3, and by enhanced Bcl-2 expression. BTG1 overexpression had the opposite effects. Mechanistically, BTG1 deficiency enhanced JAK2/STAT3 signaling by upregulating the phosphorylation of these signaling intermediaries, whereas BTG1 overexpression inhibited this signaling pathway. Notably, pretreatment with the JAK2 inhibitor ruxolitinib neutralized BTG1 knockdown-induced JAK2/STAT3 hyperactivation.BTG1 suppresses HSC activation by modulating the JAK2/STAT3 signaling axis and retards liver fibrosis progression, suggesting that it may represent a promising therapeutic target for anti-fibrotic intervention.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Gastric gland mucins contain O-glycans carrying terminal α1,4-linked N-acetylglucosamine (αGlcNAc). A previous study demonstrated that A4gnt-deficient mice lack αGlcNAc, spontaneously develop differentiated-type gastric adenocarcinoma, and exhibit significant up-regulation of Il11 transcripts in gastric mucosa. This study assessed mechanisms by which αGlcNAc deficiency induces tumorigenesis, focusing on the IL-11 receptor α (IL-11Rα)-glycoprotein 130 (gp130)-Janus kinase 2 (JAK2)-STAT3 axis. A4gnt-deficient mice exhibited enhanced phosphorylation of JAK2 and STAT3 in pyloric mucosa compared with wild-type mice, with significant increases in JAK2 phosphorylation at 5 weeks and in STAT3 phosphorylation at 5 and 10 weeks. IL-11Rα and gp130 proteins also significantly increased during this period. The thickness of the pyloric gland cell layer was significantly decreased in A4gnt and Il11 doubly deficient (A4gnt-/-;Il11-/-) mice at 10 but not 30 weeks compared with A4gnt-deficient mice, suggesting an IL-11 requirement in the early stage of tumorigenesis. Significant reduction of the proportion of phosphorylated STAT3-positive nuclei in pyloric mucosa of A4gnt-/-;Il11-/- mice at 10 weeks supports the IL-11-mediated phosphorylated STAT3 involvement in this stage. Analysis of gastric cancer AGS-A cells overexpressing αGlcNAc using a Tet-On system revealed significant reduction of IL-11-induced STAT3 phosphorylation compared with αGlcNAc-negative conditions. Moreover, both IL-11Rα and gp130 from wild-type mice and αGlcNAc-expressing AGS-A cells carried αGlcNAc, suggesting that the presence of αGlcNAc on these proteins interferes with receptor-complex formation. Overall, these findings indicate that αGlcNAc protects gastric mucosa from inflammation-induced tumorigenesis by regulating IL-11Rα-gp130-JAK2-STAT3 signaling.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Background and Objectives: Eosinophilic chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (ECRSwNP) is characterized by type 2 inflammation, marked eosinophil infiltration, and enhanced epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Although interleukin-5 (IL-5) is central to eosinophil differentiation and activation, its role in EMT in human nasal epithelial cells (HNECs) remains unclear. This study aimed to elucidate the contribution of IL-5Rα/Janus kinase 2 (JAK2)/signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 (STAT5) signaling in eosinophils in EMT in ECRSwNP. Materials and Methods: Nasal mucosal tissues from control and ECRSwNP or non-ECRSwNP group patients (n = 12 each) were analyzed for type 2 cytokine, EMT marker, and IL-5Rα/JAK2/STAT5 axis component levels using Western blotting, immunohistochemistry, and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. HL-60 cells were differentiated into eosinophil-like cells using butyric acid and stimulated with IL-5, and HNECs were co-cultured with undifferentiated, differentiated, or IL-5-activated differentiated HL-60 cells. EMT induction and migration were assessed using immunofluorescence, wound-healing assays, and Western blotting. IL-5RA, JAK2, or STAT5 was silenced using small interfering RNA to determine pathway dependency. Results: ECRSwNP tissues showed elevated type 2 cytokine and EMT marker expression and enhanced IL-5Rα/JAK2/STAT5 pathway activation. Co-culture with IL-5-activated differentiated HL-60 cells induced EMT in HNECs, evidenced by decreased E-cadherin and zonula occludens-1, increased N-cadherin and vimentin levels, and enhanced migration. Moreover, silencing IL-5RA, JAK2, or STAT5 significantly attenuated these effects. Conclusions: IL-5-activated IL-5Rα/JAK2/STAT5 signaling in eosinophils may contribute to EMT in HNECs. Thus, this pathway could be a potential therapeutic target for tissue remodeling and polyp formation in type 2 chronic rhinosinusitis.
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) management has advanced rapidly in recent years, with new therapies supplementing established treatments. The cardiorenal benefits of sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors (SGLT2i), glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RA) and nonsteroidal mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (ns-MRA) in patients with DKD have been proven in several large randomised controlled trials. Recent studies show that combining SGLT2i, ns-MRA and renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) blockade significantly slows DKD progression compared with using single agents. The concurrent use of four agents, including GLP-1RA, SGLT2i, ns-MRA and RAAS blockade, may confer additional benefits, and a four-pillar approach to managing DKD could become standard therapy in the future. Additional investigational agents, including endothelin receptor antagonists, aldosterone synthesis inhibitors, and Janus kinase 1 and Janus kinase 2 inhibitors, have demonstrated encouraging results in Phase 2 trials. These therapies may offer further treatment options for patients who are unable to use other agents.Copyright © 2026 Singapore Medical Journal.
Recurrent spontaneous abortion (RSA) poses a significant challenge to successful early pregnancy, and trophoblast cell ferroptosis is an important pathogenic mechanism of RSA. However, it remains unclear whether decidual macrophages, as key immune regulators at the maternal-fetal interface, participate in the regulation of ferroptosis in trophoblast cells. This study observed significant ferroptosis in the placental trophoblast cells of patients with RSA and aborted mice. Transcriptomic sequencing results revealed that decidual macrophages derived from patients with RSA significantly promoted trophoblast cell ferroptosis while simultaneously impairing trophoblast cell function. Mechanistically, silencing heme oxygenase 1 (HMOX1) in trophoblast cells effectively reversed ferroptosis and restored trophoblast cell function, which was inhibited by decidual macrophages derived from patients with RSA. Notably, decidual macrophages regulate trophoblast ferroptosis and function by secreting C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 2 (CXCL2). Furthermore, the nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) pathway was significantly enriched in trophoblast cells co-cultured with decidual macrophages derived from patients with RSA. Further reversal experiments indicated that the CXCL2/NF-κB/HMOX1 signaling axis may be a crucial mechanism by which decidual macrophages regulate trophoblast cell ferroptosis and function in RSA. Our subsequent findings demonstrated that trophoblast cells co-cultured with RSA-derived decidual macrophages promoted pro-inflammatory polarization in macrophages. This effect was mediated by the interleukin-6 (IL-6) deficiency-inhibited janus kinase 2 (JAK2)/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) signaling axis. Finally, pharmacological analysis revealed Eriodictyol exhibits CXCL2-axis-associated protective effects in RSA. In conclusion, we observed that decidual macrophages in patients with RSA can induce ferroptosis in trophoblast cells, implying that targeting this mechanism may offer novel opportunities for reshaping maternal-fetal tolerance.© 2026 The Author(s). iMeta published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of iMeta Science.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42488847 is a review article
Vocal fold scarring (VFS) is a debilitating fibrotic disorder lacking molecular biomarkers for early detection or for monitoring toxicant-induced injury. Cigarette smoke toxicity (CST), a major environmental driver of vocal fold fibrosis, disrupts extracellular matrix (ECM) homeostasis; however, the mechanisms linking CST to fibrotic remodeling remain poorly understood. Here, we identify CD44, a hyaluronan receptor, as a key regulator of CST-induced VFS and healthy human vocal fold fibroblast (hVFF) homeostasis. CD44 depletion reduced elastin, collagen, and lysyl oxidase mRNA expression and increased conditioned medium viscosity, demonstrating its essential role in maintaining ECM composition and viscoelastic properties. Cigarette smoke extract (CSE; 2.5-20%) induced concentration-dependent morphological alterations and cytotoxicity in hVFFs. At the median lethal concentration (LC₅₀, 5% CSE), exposure increased collagen synthesis, NHE1 expression, oxidative stress, and p53-mediated apoptosis. CSE promoted degradation of high-molecular-weight hyaluronan (500-1100kDa) into low-molecular-weight fragments (30.6-550kDa) within the ECM via CD44 and hyaluronidase but not through CEMIP, leading to glycocalyx disruption, impaired wound repair and profibrotic remodeling. These findings identify the CD44-dependent hyaluronan-catabolic pathway as a central mediator of CST-induced ECM remodeling. CD44 exhibited a context-dependent dual role in hVFF responses to CSE, acting protectively during short-term exposure (5%, 24h) but promoting detrimental cellular responses with increasing CSE concentration (≥5%) and prolonged exposure (≥72h). A synergistic pair of small-molecule inhibitors targeting CD44 signaling and structural integrity reduced oxidative stress, normalized intracellular pH, suppressed p53 expression, restored CD44 expression, attenuated inflammation, and improved wound healing. Collectively, these findings identify CD44 as a promising molecular indicator of early VFS-associated changes and a potential therapeutic target for CST-induced profibrotic remodeling.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Cardiovascular health depends critically on the integrity of the vascular extracellular matrix (ECM) and the behavior of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs), both of which can be adversely affected in vascular diseases. This study quantitatively evaluates the therapeutic potential of conditioned medium (CM) derived from bone marrow (BM-MSCs) and adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs) in an elastase-injured human aortic smooth muscle cell (HASMC) model. We systematically varied seeding densities (2000, 5000, and 10,000 cells/cm2) and serum conditions to optimize the SC-SMC secretome for vascular repair. Our results indicate that neither BM-SMC nor AD-SMC CM significantly enhanced lysyl oxidase (LOX) activity. In fact, serum-supplemented BM-SMC CM significantly suppressed LOX activity at seeding densities of 2000 cells/cm2 (p = 0.0378) and 10,000 cells/cm2 (p = 0.0080) compared to injured untreated controls. High-density AD-SMC CM (10,000 cells/cm2) also resulted in a significant decrease in elastin levels (p < 0.05). In addition, serum presence was critical for maintaining the reparative phenotype. Serum-free (SF) conditions for both cell sources led to widespread, statistically significant reductions (p < 0.0001) in key repair and inflammatory biomarkers, including PDGF-AA, Leptin, Lipocalin-2, Osteopontin, RBP4, MMP-1, and IL-6. IL-11 emerged as a primary discriminatory biomarker, showing significant differences between BM and AD treatments at high seeding densities, with both sources causing a significant decrease (p < 0.0001) compared to injured untreated controls. These findings demonstrate that seeding density and serum conditions are critical variables that quantitatively modulate the efficacy of SC-SMC-CM. The study highlights that BM-SMC-derived CM offers a more stable platform for elastin maintenance under serum-free conditions, providing a foundation for developing tailored, cell-free regenerative therapies for cardiovascular disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42536278 is a review article
Platelet-derived growth factor subunit B (PDGF-B) signaling plays a critical role in pericyte activation and neurovascular repair following ischemic injury. Although enhancing PDGF-B signaling in pericytes represents a promising therapeutic strategy for ischemic stroke, practical approaches have not yet been developed. In this study, we evaluated the therapeutic efficacy and underlying mechanisms of PDGF-B-modified heat shock protein nanoparticles (PDGF-B HSPNPs) in a transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (tMCAO) mouse model of either sex. Mice were treated with single intravenous injection of PDGF-B HSPNPs immediately after reperfusion, and infarct volume and motor function were assessed. To investigate cellular effects, flow cytometric analysis of brain-derived single-cell suspensions was performed three days after treatment to quantify Platelet-derived growth factor receptorβ (PDGFRβ)-positive pericytes. Our results demonstrate that PDGF-B HSPNPs administration significantly reduced infarct volume and improved motor function, accompanied by enhanced activation of pericytes in the peri-infarct region. These findings suggest that PDGF-B HSPNPs represent a promising therapeutic approach for the treatment of ischemic stroke.Significance Statement In this study, we demonstrated that immediate post-reperfusion administration of PDGF-B HSPNPs significanly improved the outcomes including the infarct volume and motor function recovery in a transient MCA occlusion mouse model. Importantly, our data revealed a possible mechanism by which PDGF-B HSPNPs enhance early activation of pericytes and endothelial cells-critical components of the neurovascular unit-leading to reduced infarct size and improved motor function. These findings suggest that nanoparticle-based targeting of pericyte pathways may represents a promising therapeutic strategy for acute ischemic stroke.Copyright © 2026 Karashima et al.
Late-onset preeclampsia (LO-PE) is the most prevalent clinical phenotype of preeclampsia and, although traditionally considered less strongly associated with placental dysfunction than early-onset disease, increasing evidence supports the presence of relevant placental alterations. The extracellular matrix (ECM) is a key regulator of villous architecture, tissue mechanics, trophoblast behavior, vascular remodeling, and angiogenesis. This study aimed to characterize ECM remodeling in placentas from women with LO-PE.A prospective observational study was conducted in 111 pregnant women, including 68 with LO-PE and 43 healthy controls. Placental samples were collected immediately after delivery. Gene expression of elastogenesis-related markers, cross-linking enzymes, fibrillar collagens, matrix-remodeling regulators, and endothelial-matrix signaling molecules was assessed by RT-qPCR. Protein expression was evaluated by immunohistochemistry. Differences between groups were analyzed using non-parametric tests with Benjamini-Hochberg correction, and correlations among ECM markers were explored using Spearman analysis.LO-PE placentas showed significantly increased expression of tropoelastin (TE), fibulin-4 (FBLN-4), fibulin-5 (FBLN-5), fibrillin-1 (FBN-1), lysyl oxidase (LOX), lysyl oxidase-like 1 (LOXL-1), collagen type I (COL-I), collagen type III (COL-III), and matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) at both gene and protein levels. Conversely, gene and protein expression of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-2 (TIMP-2) and epidermal growth factor-like domain 7 (EGFL7) showed a marked decrease in the placentas of pregnant women with LO-PE. These findings indicate enhanced elastogenesis, increased matrix cross-linking, greater fibrillar collagen deposition, and an imbalance in matrix turnover. Correlation analysis further suggested that, although the FBLN-4/FBLN-5 axis remained preserved, LO-PE placentas displayed partial disruption of the broader ECM transcriptional network.LO-PE placentas exhibit a coordinated but dysregulated ECM remodeling phenotype involving elastic, collagenous, proteolytic, and endothelial-matrix regulatory pathways. These alterations support ECM remodeling as a relevant biological feature of LO-PE placental pathophysiology.
Bone cancer pain (BCP) affects most patients with bone metastases and is poorly managed by current analgesics. This study evaluated tetrathiomolybdate (TTM), a clinical copper chelator, for its potential to simultaneously target osteoclast activation and copper-dependent tumor growth in BCP. Using a mouse model with intrafemoral Lewis lung carcinoma cells, TTM (20-40 mg·kg-1 daily) significantly reduced mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia, even when treatment began after pain establishment. TTM suppressed osteoclast differentiation markers in bone tissue and bone marrow-derived macrophages cultures. It also directly inhibited tumor cell viability in vitro and reduced tumor burden in vivo by 43%. Mechanistically, TTM downregulated lysyl oxidase (LOX) in tumor bone, and exogenous LOX partially reversed the inhibitory effect of TTM on osteoclasts differentiation. These findings suggest that TTM alleviates BCP potentially through inhibition of copper-dependent tumor progression and attenuation of LOX-associated osteoclast activation. Our results support further investigation of copper-dependent signaling pathways as potential modulators of tumor-associated bone destruction and cancer-induced pain.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc.
A single-nucleotide missense polymorphism (rs1800449, R158Q) in the propeptide domain of lysyl oxidase (LOX-PP) is associated with increased risk of coronary artery disease (CAD) independent of changes in plasma lipid levels. Although the enzymatic function of LOX has an essential role for the cross-linking of extracellular matrix proteins in connective tissues, whether and how LOX-PP R158Q contributes to the development of atherosclerosis has not been clearly established. Here, hypercholesterolemia was induced in mice that were WT or homozygous for the LOX-PP R158Q polymorphism by adeno-associated virus-8-mediated overexpression of Pcsk9 followed by high-fat diet feeding for 16 weeks. We found that the R158Q polymorphism promoted atherosclerosis and induced proliferation of macrophages and vascular smooth muscle cells without altering LOX enzymatic activity. Using single-cell RNA sequencing, we found the transcriptional program of atherosclerotic plaques from mice harboring R158Q was strongly enriched for proliferation- and calcification-related genes in a regionally distinct manner. Together, these results establish an enzymatically independent proatherogenic role for the LOX-PP and suggest its potential as a novel therapeutic target.
Natural killer (NK) cells are cytotoxic innate lymphoid cells that play a critical role in tumor surveillance by releasing proinflammatory cytokines and cytotoxic granules. NKp44 is an activating receptor that promotes NK cell secretion of TNF and IFN-γ upon engaging platelet-derived growth factor D (PDGF-DD), a ligand frequently overexpressed in aggressive malignancies, such as glioblastoma (GBM). However, whether NKp44-mediated recognition of PDGF-DD can directly enhance NK cell cytotoxicity against tumor cells remains unclear. Here we investigated the effect of PDGF-DD stimulation on NK cell cytotoxicity by analyzing the activity of cytotoxic transcriptional programs and cytolytic function of human NK cells in flow cytometry-based cytotoxicity assays. We demonstrate that PDGF-DD stimulation of NKp44 activates a procytotoxic transcriptional program and secretion of key cytotoxic effectors, including granzyme B, perforin, and Fas ligand. This response significantly enhanced NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity of GBM cell lines (T98G, U87, LN229 and A172) and HEK 293T cells, but not the NK-sensitive K562 cell line. Furthermore, the negation of PDGF-DD-mediated cytotoxicity and lytic granule secretion upon blockade and genetic ablation of NKp44 reveal that PDGF-DD augmentation of NK cell tumoricidal activity is tumor-type specific and reliant upon NKp44. Our data highlight a novel mechanism by which NK cells can detect soluble components of the tumor secretome, expanding the paradigm of NK cell activation beyond classical cell-surface interactions.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
Objective To investigate the early transcriptomic characteristics of neutrophils and monocytes stimulated by the major surface protein 2 (MSP2) of anaplasma phagocytophilum(AP), to preliminarily explore their functional differences and potential common pro-inflammatory mechanisms of these two cell types in the inflammatory response, and to provide a theoretical basis for understanding the inflammatory pathogenesis of Human Granulocytic Anaplasmosis (HGA) and for developing anti-inflammatory strategies. Methods HL60 cells (rHL60) differentiated with dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) for 8 days were used as a neutrophil-like cell model, and human acute monocytic leukemia (THP-1) cells were used as a monocyte model. Both cells were stimulated with recombinant MSP2 (rMSP2) for 2 hours. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified by transcriptome sequencing, and their biological functions and related signaling pathways were analyzed via Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment. The mRNA expression levels of key DEGs were validated by real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR), and the concentrations of cytokines in cell supernatants were measured by ELISA. Results Transcriptome analysis showed that in rHL60 cells, DEGs were mainly enriched in inflammation. qPCR confirmed the up-regulation of C-C motif chemokine receptor 7 (CCR7) and oxidized low-density lipoprotein receptor 1 (OLR1), while CD1D molecule and C-X-C motif chemokine receptors 1/2 (CXCR1/2) were down-regulated. In THP-1 cells, DEGs were primarily enriched in transcriptional regulation. qPCR validated the up-regulation of nuclear factor kappa B inhibitor zeta (NFKBIZ) and nuclear receptor subfamily 4 group A member 3 (NR4A3), whereas thioredoxin-interacting protein (TXNIP) and interleukin-16 (IL-16) were down-regulated. ELISA results demonstrated that both cell types significantly secreted C-C motif chemokine ligands 3/4/20 (CCL3/4/20) following MSP2 stimulation. Conclusion In the early phase of MSP2 stimulation, neutrophils serve as the primary cells initiating the inflammatory response, whereas monocytes focus on immune regulation. The co-secretion of CCL3, CCL4, and CCL20 may represent a potential molecular mechanism by which these two innate immune cell types jointly promote inflammatory responses during AP infection.
Wet age-related macular degeneration is a leading cause of irreversible vision loss, primarily due to choroidal neovascularization (CNV) and subsequent fibrosis. Although current anti-vascular endothelial growth factor A (anti-VEGF) therapies offer significant benefits, many patients exhibit limited or no response and develop drug resistance over time, necessitating the exploration of complementary or alternative therapeutics. This study aimed to identify and characterize a platelet-derived growth factor-C (PDGF-C)-targeting DNA aptamer and to evaluate its therapeutic potential for suppressing CNV and fibrosis, including in an anti-VEGF-refractory setting.A DNA aptamer against PDGF-C (α-PC aptamer) was identified using systematic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment. Its binding to PDGF-C and inhibition of PDGF-C/platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha (PDGFRα) interaction were assessed using surface plasmon resonance. The effects of the α-PC aptamer on PDGF-C-induced proliferation, migration, and PDGFRα, Akt, and extracellular-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling were examined in fibroblasts and human umbilical vein smooth muscle cells (HUVSMCs). In vivo efficacy was evaluated in a laser-induced CNV mouse model, including anti-VEGF refractory aged mice.The α-PC aptamer specifically bound to PDGF-C and effectively blocked its binding to PDGFRα. The α-PC aptamer significantly inhibited PDGFRα, Akt, and ERK activation and suppressed PDGF-C-induced proliferation and migration of both fibroblasts and HUVSMCs. Importantly, in a laser-induced CNV mouse model, the α-PC aptamer markedly reduced neovascularization and fibrosis; it particularly retained efficacy in suppressing CNV in anti-VEGF refractory aged mice, where anti-VEGF treatment failed to do so.These findings suggest that the α-PC aptamer represents a promising therapeutic agent for treating neovascular diseases, especially in patients refractory to anti-VEGF treatment.
Natural killer (NK) cells are key innate lymphoid cells that restrict tumour progression by secreting proinflammatory cytokines and directly lysing malignant cells, with their activity tightly regulated by a balance of activating and inhibitory surface receptors. The natural cytotoxicity receptor NKp44 is induced on NK cells following stimulation with IL-2 or IL-15 and recognizes platelet-derived growth factor D (PDGF-DD) as a ligand. Mechanistic interpretation of NKp44 signalling upon PDGF-DD engagement is confounded by the existence of three distinct NKp44 isoforms (NKp44-1, -2, and -3), each capable of initiating divergent intracellular signalling cascades. Unlike NKp44-2 and -3, NKp44-1 encodes a cytoplasmic tyrosine residue (Y238) that conforms to a putative immunoreceptor tyrosine-based inhibition motif (ITIM) and has been reported to suppress NK cell effector functions in some contexts. However, it remains unclear whether the NKp44 isoforms are translated and expressed in NK cells, and formal evidence defining NKp44-1 signalling in response to engagement by PDGF-DD is lacking.In this study, we used C-terminal targeting monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) and a NFAT-GFP reporter system to define the expression and signalling properties of NKp44 isoforms in response to PDGF-DD.We demonstrate protein expression of NKp44-1 and NKp44-2-/3 receptors in IL-2 expanded NK cells. We further show that NKp44-1 transduces activating rather than inhibitory signals when engaged by PDGF-DD ligand, albeit weaker than NKp44-3. Intriguingly, we find that Y238 is dispensable for NKp44-1 activating signalling and instead functions as a YXXΦ internalisation motif.Collectively, these findings provide the first evidence that the NKp44-1 and NKp44-2/3 isoforms are expressed in NK cells and establish that PDGF-DD activates signalling through NKp44-1 independently of Y238. This work lays the foundations for future studies investigating how PDGF-DD sensing by the different NKp44 isoforms shapes immune functions in different physiological and pathological contexts.
The role of platelet-derived growth factor D (PDGFD) in mesenchymal cells is well-established, but its specific function in skeletal muscle generation remains unknown. This study reveals for the first time PDGFD's dual regulatory role in myogenesis: it acts both as a "guardian" maintaining the myoblast pool and as an "initiator" driving myogenic differentiation. Through single-cell RNA sequencing analysis of skeletal muscle from Jiangquan Black pigs, we identified PDGFD as a common candidate gene for both muscle and fat development. In the C2C12 cell model, PDGFD knockdown significantly inhibited cell proliferation and promoted apoptosis, while overexpression enhanced viability and inhibited apoptosis, indicating its critical role in maintaining myoprogenic precursor cell homeostasis. Further studies revealed that PDGFD interference downregulated key myogenic differentiation markers MyoD and MyoG, inhibiting differentiation. Its expression peaked during mid-differentiation (D5), suggesting temporal regulation of differentiation. Interestingly, although PDGFD primarily acts through the PI3K/Akt pathway downstream of PDGFR-β, PDGFD knockdown did not show significant synergistic effects with PI3K/Akt pathway activation in inhibiting differentiation. This suggests PDGFD may specifically regulate myogenic differentiation via an independent or parallel signaling axis. This study not only expands the known functions of PDGFD in muscle biology but also provides new insights into the mechanisms by which growth factors coordinate cell fate decisions.
The aim of the present study is to compare cold adaptation mechanisms between cold-tolerant Hezuo and cold-sensitive Bama pigs.A total of 40 healthy pigs (75 days old), including 20 Hezuo pigs and 20 Bama pigs, were used in this study. A 2×2 factorial design was employed, with factors including breed (Hezuo vs. Bama) and ambient temperature (23±2°C vs. -15±2°C). After 7 days of acclimation, pigs in the cold groups were exposed to low temperature and slaughtered on days 0, 1, 5, and 10 (n = 5 per group per time point). All pigs had ad libitum access to feed and water. Lung histology, wet/dry ratio, oxidative and inflammatory biomarkers, apoptosis, and transcriptomics were analyzed.The results showed that Hezuo pigs displayed less severe alveolar septal thickening, inflammatory infiltration, and fine bronchial fold extension during cold exposure than Bama pigs. The W/D ratio dramatically decreased in Hezuo pigs while rising in Bama pigs. Hezuo pigs exhibited significantly higher aquaporin-1 (AQP-1) and aquaporin-5 (AQP-5) expressions than Bama pigs during the middle and late phases. Bama pigs displayed increased reactive oxygen species, malondialdehyde, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β) and decreased glutathione (GSH) levels. Hezuo pigs maintained stable GSH levels and no significant changes in late-phase inflammatory markers. Bama pigs had a greater apoptosis density and more TUNEL-positive cells than Hezuo pigs, which was related to the down-regulation of B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) and the up-regulation of Bcl2-associated X protein (Bax) and Caspase-3. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that in Bama pigs, distinctive genes such as mucin 5B (MUC5B), matrix metallopeptidase 9 (MMP9), alveolar macrophage chemotactic factor-II (AMCF-II), interleukin 22 receptor subunit alpha 1 (IL22RA1), C-C motif chemokine ligand 16 (CCL16), SRY-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9), keratin 5 (KRT5) contribute to mucus hypersecretion, extracellular matrix degradation, and sustained inflammatory chemotaxis, worsening tissue damage. In contrast, Hezuo pigs possess unique genes such as aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member A2 (ALDH1A2), acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family member 6 (ACSL6), ACSM5, aldo-keto reductase family 1 member C1 (AKR1C1), nuclear receptor subfamily 4 group A member 3/2 (NR4A3/2), G protein subunit gamma 4 (GNG4), glycogen synthase 2 (GYS2), which enhance lipid metabolism, facilitate aldehyde detoxification, and mitigate oxidative stress, thereby orchestrating a cellular protection.Hezuo pigs exhibit protective molecular mechanisms, suggesting potential targets for cold-resistance breeding.
The prognosis for patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is poor, mainly due to the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME). However, the underlying mechanism and strategies to reverse this immunosuppressive TME remain to be clarified.This study aimed to identify key factors contributing to ESCC immunosuppressive TME, to investigate the regulatory role of diosmetin (DIOS), and to explore its potential in enhancing the anti-PD-1 therapy efficacy.Bioinformatics analysis identified the key factors affecting the ESCC immune microenvironment. Cell proliferation, transwell migration, invasion, tube formation, spheroid sprouting and Chick chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) assays evaluated the effect of DIOS on angiogenesis. Transcriptomic sequencing clarified the mechanism of DIOS in ESCC cells and HUVECs. Molecular docking, Cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA), pull down and Surface plasmon resonance (SPR) assays detected the binding of DIOS to target proteins. Finally, the combined effect of DIOS and anti-PD-1 antibody was explored in vivo.Angiogenesis and CD8+T cell suppression were key contributors to ESCC immunosuppression. DIOS suppressed angiogenesis in ESCC cells via the AURKB/AKT/STAT4/PDGFC axis and in HUVECs stimulated by ESCC CM via the JAK1/STAT1/PDGFC pathway. Clinically, high PDGFC was associated with poor prognosis and limited immune checkpoint blockade efficacy in ESCC patients. Meanwhile, DIOS promoted both T cell adhesion and migration, as well as the killing capacity of CD8⁺T cells. Furthermore, anti-CD8 antibody attenuated the anti-tumor effect of DIOS. Notably, the combination of DIOS with anti-PD-1 antibody inhibited the growth of ESCC without causing significant kidney toxicity.This study demonstrates for the first time that the natural compound DIOS dually suppresses tumor angiogenesis and enhances CD8⁺T cell function. And the combination of DIOS with anti-PD-1 antibody enhanced anti-tumor efficacy in ESCC. These findings provide a novel strategy for developing low-toxicity immunotherapy combinations based on natural products.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Platelet-derived growth factor D (PDGF-D) acts as a noncanonical ligand for human NKp44+ group 3 innate lymphoid cells (ILC3s). However, mice lack NKp44, raising the question of whether PDGF-D regulates murine ILC3s through a distinct pathway. We show that PDGF-D promoted interleukin-22 (IL-22) production and ILC3 proliferation in mice through PDGF receptor β (PDGFRβ), a canonical receptor absent in human ILC3s. Mice lacking PDGFRβ in ILC3s were susceptible to enteric infections. Using NKp44-transgenic mice, we demonstrate that PDGF-D engagement of NKp44 instead induced a type 1 effector program marked by tumor necrosis factor-α and interferon-γ (IFN-γ) production. Although early IFN-γ release protected mice from enteric infections, sustained IFN-γ was detrimental. Tissue localization analysis with a PDGF-D reporter identified fibroblasts and endothelial cells as inflammation-responsive PDGF-D sources. These findings reveal evolutionarily divergent PDGF-D sensing mechanisms in ILC3s and uncover their differential contributions to mucosal immunity during infection.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41668130 is a review article
Bladder cancer (BCa) is a prevalent malignancy with high recurrence and metastasis rates. Nuclear receptor subfamily 4 group A member 3 (NR4A3), a member of the orphan nuclear receptor superfamily, is implicated in various cancers, but its functional role and mechanisms in BCa have not been well understood. This study aimed to explore the functional significance and diagnostic value of NR4A3 in BCa, with a focus on its regulation of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and anoikis sensitivity via ATF6 and RNF139.NR4A3 expression in BCa cell lines was assessed by qRT-PCR and Western blot. Gain-of-function assays were performed to evaluate cell proliferation, apoptosis, and anoikis sensitivity in vitro. ER stress markers and ATF6 degradation were examined by immunoblotting, cycloheximide chase, and ubiquitination assays. The role of RNF139 and its regulation by NR4A3 via KLF2 and KLF4 were determined via various biological assays. In vivo tumorigenesis was assessed using a xenograft mouse model. Additionally, the diagnostic performance of NR4A3 was evaluated in 100 clinical patients using serum ELISA and color Doppler ultrasound.NR4A3 was downregulated in BCa cells, and its overexpression suppressed cell proliferation, colony formation and promoted apoptosis and anoikis sensitivity. Mechanistically, NR4A3 inhibited ER stress by promoting ATF6 ubiquitination and degradation via transcriptional activation of RNF139 through KLF2 and KLF4. RNF139 directly interacted with ATF6 and mediated its ubiquitination at lysine 152. In vivo, NR4A3 overexpression inhibited tumor growth. Clinically, combining color Doppler ultrasound with serum NR4A3 levels significantly improved diagnostic accuracy for BCa (AUC = 0.986).NR4A3 suppresses BCa progression via the KLF2/4-RNF139-ATF6 axis and enhances diagnostic efficacy when combined with ultrasound imaging.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42557589 is a review article
Obesity is a major metabolic disorder characterized by excessive lipid accumulation and adipocyte differentiation. The mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 5 (MEK5) signaling pathway has been implicated in diverse cellular processes; however, its role in adipogenesis remains incompletely understood. In this study, we investigated the anti-adipogenic effects of BIX02189, a selective MEK5 inhibitor, using 3T3-L1 adipocytes, human adipose-derived stem cells (hASCs), and zebrafish models. Treatment with BIX02189 significantly reduced lipid accumulation and triglyceride content during adipocyte differentiation in a dose-dependent manner without marked cytotoxicity. BIX02189 effectively suppressed MEK5 phosphorylation and downregulated the expression of key adipogenic transcription factors, including peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR-γ) and CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha (C/EBP-α). In addition, BIX02189 decreased the phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and STAT5, as well as the expression of lipogenic markers such as fatty acid synthase (FAS), perilipin A, and leptin. Conversely, BIX02189 enhanced AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) phosphorylation and markedly reduced the protein and mRNA expression of acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC), a key enzyme involved in fatty acid synthesis. Similar anti-adipogenic effects were observed in hASCs. Furthermore, BIX02189 significantly attenuated lipid accumulation in a zebrafish obesity model without affecting body length or causing overt toxicity. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that pharmacological inhibition of MEK5 suppresses adipogenesis and lipid accumulation through regulation of the STAT3/STAT5-PPAR-γ axis and activation of AMPK signaling. These findings provide the first evidence that MEK5 inhibition exerts anti-adipogenic effects in adipocytes and zebrafish, highlighting the MEK5 signaling pathway as a previously unrecognized regulator of adipogenesis and lipid metabolism.
Mitochondrial dysfunction has been recognized as one of the three hallmark biological features of autism spectrum disorder. This study is intended to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying prenatal psychological fear stress‑induced hippocampal mitochondrial damage in offspring. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that the calcium signaling pathway, particularly the phospholipase C beta 1(PLCβ1)- inositol 1,4,5‑trisphosphate receptor (IP3R)- voltage‑dependent anion channel 1(VDAC1) pathway, may play a key role in prenatal stress‑induced hippocampal mitochondrial damage in offspring. To validate this, we examined pathway activation in the offspring hippocampus of prenatal fear stressed rats and in corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH; also known as CRF in rodents) overexposed SH‑SY5Y cells, along with mitochondrial calcium levels in the cells. Prenatal fear stress induced depressive-like behavior and HPA axis activation in pregnant dams, and reduced survival and growth in offspring. Placental and neonatal brain CRF levels were elevated. At the early socialization stage (Postnatal day 21-30), model offspring showed normal basal but exaggerated stress-induced HPA responses. Their hippocampus exhibited expanded MAM coverage, reduced ER-mitochondria distance, and upregulated PLCβ1, IP3R1, VDAC1 expression, along with increased GRP75‑VDAC1 co‑localization, confirming MAM remodeling at the molecular level. In vitro, CRH (20 µM for 48 h or 5-20 µM for 96 h) inhibited SH-SY5Y cell proliferation, upregulated CRH receptor 1(CRHR1), PLCβ1, VDAC1, and increased mitochondrial calcium; these effects were reversed by the CRHR1 antagonist CP376395 or PLCβ1 knockdown. Furthermore, the MCU inhibitor DS16570511 partially reversed CRH‑induced mitochondrial calcium elevation and proliferation inhibition, suggesting that mitochondrial calcium overload contributes to the proliferation inhibition. Collectively, these results suggest that prenatal fear stress may, via the CRF-CRFR1 axis, influence the PLCβ1-IP3R-VDAC1 pathway, inducing MAM remodeling and mitochondrial calcium overload, thereby contributing to offspring hippocampal neuronal damage.© 2026. The Author(s).
Acromegaly is a severe endocrine disease, and growth hormone receptor antagonist B2036 constitutes the core protein backbone of pegvisomant. Conventional B2036 production based on inclusion bodies or periplasmic expression suffers from low yield, complicated refolding, and multi-step purification. Herein, we developed a highly efficient, refolding-free bioprocess for soluble expression of B2036 in Escherichia coli using SUMO fusion technology. The entire fermentation cycle was controlled within 24 h, and fermentation optimization via response surface methodology enabled a high-yield soluble yield of 0.95 g/L. For downstream processing, an industrial-scalable, affinity-tag-free strategy using only two chromatography steps (anion-exchange and mixed-mode chromatography) was established, producing 498.47 mg/L B2036 with 97.12% purity, representing a 20-fold improvement over previous reports. The obtained B2036 showed correct sequence, precise disulfide pairing, and strong biological activity with an IC₅₀ of 0.67 nmol/L. By removing protein refolding and metal-affinity chromatography, this simplified and robust workflow remarkably improves productivity and product quality, offering a cost-effective and scalable technical platform for large-scale manufacturing of pegvisomant biosimilars. Collectively, these findings provide a valuable reference for developing efficient soluble expression and downstream purification processes of other intrachain disulfide-bonded proteins in E. coli.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Laron Syndrome (LS), caused by defects in the GH receptor (GH-R) gene, is a rare recessively inherited disease of severe short stature. The number of patients with LS worldwide is so far unknown.To determine the reported number of patients with LS, and analyse their geographical distribution, in relation to the repertoire of pathogenic GH-R variants.Using the keywords: Laron Syndrome, GH insensitivity and GH receptor defects or deficiencies, we searched the following indices: PubMed, SCOPUS, EMBASE, ScienceDirect, Web of Science, Google and Cochrane Reviews. Eight hundred and one publications, including references published between the years 1966-2025, were reviewed. We generated a list of patients with LS, their geographical distributions and their pathogenic variants in the GH-R gene. Patients cited repeatedly were included only once.Eight hundred forty patients with Laron Syndrome (412 males, 361 females, 67 sex not stated) were identified in 801 publications. The majority of patients are concentrated in East and South Asia, the Mediterranean Basin, and South America. Four hundred and two patients out of 411 had a genetic analysis, revealing 109 different genetic defects. The majority of pathogenic variants were in the extracellular domain of the GH-R gene with fewer defects identified in the transmembrane or intracellular domains and in introns. Large geographic clusters of patients with LS were associated with one predominant or several different GH-R gene defects.Review of the scientific literature between 1966-2025 revealed 840 patients with Laron Syndrome. Shared ancestors, human migration and the practice of consanguinity explain the geographic distribution of these patients.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society.
With high incidence and mortality rates, lung cancer has brought a huge burden to patients' families and society. Sparganii Rhizoma, a famous anti-cancer herb, has demonstrated good effects on lung cancer. However, the underlying active ingredients and mechanism of Sparganii Rhizoma on lung cancer were not yet clear.This study integrated network pharmacology, molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation to explore the active ingredients and mechanism of Sparganii Rhizoma on Lung Cancer.Three databases and several related studies were used to screen the ingredients and targets of Sparganii Rhizoma and lung cancer, respectively. The enrichment analyses were performed using the Matascape database, and the protein-protein interaction (PPI) and ingredient-target-pathway networks were constructed. Finally, molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations were used to verify the key active ingredients and targets of Sparganii Rhizoma in lung cancer.A total of 129 ingredients and 1101 targets of Sparganii Rhizoma, and 150 targets of lung cancer, were obtained. Network pharmacology identified 57 active ingredients, 27 targets, and 86 signaling pathways for Sparganii Rhizoma in lung cancer. The results of molecular docking indicated that the key active ingredients included sparstolonin B, emodin, adenosine, 4-hydroxycinnamic acid, and so on, and the key targets were Cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2), Prostaglandin G/H synthase 2 (PTGS2), and Dual specificity mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 1 (MAP2K1). In a molecular dynamics simulation, sparstolonin B bound to CYP1A2, PTGS2, and MAP2K1 with good affinity.Based on the integration of network pharmacology, molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation, this study revealed the potential active ingredients and mechanisms of Sparganii Rhizoma on lung cancer.
End-stage chronic liver disease in children is associated with sarcopenia and aberrant adipose tissue mass. We investigated correlations between liver pathology-associated gene pathways (fibrosis, inflammation and steatosis) and metabolic genes in muscle and adipose tissue.Liver, rectus abdominis muscle and subcutaneous adipose tissue were collected during liver transplant for microarray gene expression analysis. Patients underwent pre-transplant indirect calorimetry, anthropometry and laboratory assessments. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis identified highly correlated gene modules within each tissue and explored inter-tissue correlations.Nine patients were studied, three male:six female, age 7 months to 17 years. Liver gene clusters associated with fibrosis and ribosome function/protein secretion negatively correlated with muscle mitochondrial function genes and positively correlated with adipose tissue mitochondrial function genes. Notable correlations included a negative correlation between muscle growth hormone receptor (GHR) and liver ARID5B, MFGE8 and YWHAZ, and a positive correlation between adipose AKT1, ADG5, and SRM and liver RRAGA, YES1, EIF3M and COX3A. Liver inflammation-associated genes (vimentin, TIMP2, CXCL6 and endothelin-1) negatively correlated with adipose genes improving insulin sensitivity (THRSP) and fibrosis-related genes (KRT36, DMTN). Liver steatosis genes (ADRA2B) negatively correlated with adipose genes involved in adipogenesis (FGF10) and thyroid hormone metabolism (NHLH1).Genes related to liver fibrosis and protein secretion negatively correlated with muscle and adipose tissue metabolism/proliferation genes. Liver inflammation and steatosis gene clusters were associated with muscle and adipose metabolism genes. This pilot study highlights important inter-tissue gene correlations warranting further investigation in paediatric end-stage chronic liver disease.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Pediatric Gastroenterology and Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of European Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition and North American Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition.
The beta-nerve growth factor (β-NGF), a seminal plasma protein with established luteotrophic effects in camelids and cattle, has been proposed as a modulator of periovulatory follicular function. The optimization of the steroidogenic environment of the preovulatory follicle is critical for oocyte maturation, corpus luteum formation, and embryo quality. However, the molecular actions of β-NGF on granulosa cells (GCs) during the periovulatory period in dairy heifers remain poorly defined. This study evaluated the effects of systemic administration of heterologous β-NGF (purified from llama seminal plasma) on the expression of steroidogenic enzymes in GCs from preovulatory follicles in estrus-synchronized Holstein heifers. Animals received 1 mg of β-NGF intramuscularly on Day 9 (estradiol benzoate administration) or Day 10 (fixed-time artificial insemination) of a progesterone(P4)/estradiol (E2)-based synchronization protocol. The follicular fluid and GCs were collected via transvaginal ultrasound-guided aspiration for hormone quantification and gene expression analysis. β-NGF treatment on Day 9 significantly upregulated Lutenizing hormone/choriogonadotropin receptor (LHCGR) and key steroidogenic enzymes, including 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (HSD3B), Cytochrome P450 family 11 subfamily A member 1 (CYP11A1), 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (HSD17B), and Cytochrome P450 family 19 subfamily A member 1 (CYP19A1), whereas no transcriptional effects were observed when NGF was administered on Day 10, indicating a timing-dependent regulation of GCs differentiation. In contrast, Growth hormone receptor GHR and Steroidogenic acute regulatory protein expression levels remained unaffected, supporting the selectivity of NGF-induced transcriptional modulation. The follicular fluid P4/E2 ratios were not significantly altered by NGF treatment. These findings indicate that β-NGF increased steroidogenic and LHCGR gene abundance of GCs in a timing-dependent manner, suggesting that NGF may represent a potential modulator of the preovulatory follicle function in dairy cattle.
This research surveyed the therapeutic potential of curcumin (Cur) in Parkinson's disease (PD), focusing on its effects on cuproptosis and underlying molecular mechanisms. A MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine)-induced mouse model and a MPP+ (1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium)-treated PC12 cell model were used in this study. In vivo, Cur treatment significantly mitigated MPTP-treated dyskinesia and lessened the damage of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in SNpc. Additionally, Cur reversed MPTP-induced changes by increasing TH (tyrosine hydroxylase) expression and decreasing α-syn (α-synuclein) accumulation in the SN. In vitro, Cur mitigated MPP+-treated apoptosis and the cytotoxicity of differentiated PC12 cells. Furthermore, Cur reversed MPTP/MPP+-induced changes in the cuproptosis-related protein expression, including DLAT (dihydrolipoamide S-acetyltransferase), FDX1 (ferredoxin 1), and upregulating SLC31A1 (solute carrier family 31 member 1) and HSP70 (heat shock protein 70). 3-MA (3-methyladenine) reversed Cur-mediated expression levels of DLAT, FDX1, SLC31A1, and HSP70 in the PD models. Mechanistically, Cur decreased the expression of p-AKT (p-protein kinase B), p-mTOR (p-mammalian target of rapamycin), and p-P70S6K (p-70 KDa ribosomal protein S6 kinase‌) in the PD models, suggesting it has an inhibitory effect on the AKT/mTOR/P70S6K signaling pathway. Furthermore, pretreatment with SC79 (an AKT activator) reversed Cur-induced autophagy activation, supporting the role of this pathway in Cur-mediated neuroprotection. Cur protected against DA neuronal loss by modulating the interplay between cuproptosis and autophagy via the suppression of the AKT/mTOR/P70S6K. The study findings provide novel insights into the mechanism of Cur's neuroprotective effect, highlighting the AKT/mTOR/autophagy/cuproptosis axis as a potential target and Cur as a medicant for PD management.© 2026. The Author(s).
WNT2B is canonically characterized as a secreted WNT-family ligand, which is transported to the extracellular space via the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-Golgi pathway and binds to cell surface FZDs (frizzled class receptors) to trigger downstream signaling cascades. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized non-secretory intracellular function of WNT2B in impairing endosomal trafficking to inhibit macroautophagy/autophagy, as well as a non-canonical LC3B-II-dependent autophagic secretion mechanism for WNT2B. Specifically, the non-secretory intracellular pool of WNT2B via its conserved middle domain (MD) binds to the spectrin repeat domain (SRD) of WASHC5, competitively displacing WASHC1 and thereby disrupting WASH complex assembly and inhibiting WASHC1-mediated actin polymerization on early endosomes. This disruption impairs endosomal cargo trafficking, including the core autophagy protein ATG9A, leading to defective autophagy initiation and subsequent accumulation of pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic factors in fibroblasts. We validated this mechanism in vivo using a TNBS-induced mouse model of chronic colitis. Fibroblast-specific wnt2b deletion restores autophagy, reduces pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion, and ameliorates intestinal fibrosis. Consistently, in Crohn disease (CD) patient tissues, elevated WNT2B in fibrotic regions negatively correlates with autophagy activity, and positively correlates with pro-fibrotic phenotypes, and clinical disease severity. Moreover, we identify a novel LC3B-II-dependent autophagic secretion pathway for WNT2B, which is distinct from the conventional ER-to-Golgi-dependent protein secretion. Collectively, our study delineates a novel non-canonical WNT2B-WASH complex-ATG9A regulatory axis through which WNT2B impairs endosomal trafficking and disrupts autophagy, ultimately amplifying inflammation and fibrosis. This study suggests that WNT2B may serve as a promising therapeutic target for CD and autophagy-associated fibrotic disorders.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; AAV: adeno-associated virus; ACTA2: actin alpha 2, smooth muscle; ARPC2: actin related protein 2/3 complex subunit 2; ATG: autophagy related; CCN3: cellular communication network factor 3; CD: Crohn disease; CK666: 2-fluoro-N-[2-(2-methyl-1H-indol-3-yl)ethyl]benzamide; COL1A1: collagen type I alpha 1 chain; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CTNNB1: catenin beta 1; DBcAMP: dibutyryl cyclic adenosine monophosphate; DPT: dermatopontin; EEA1: early endosome antigen 1; EGFR: epidermal growth factor receptor; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complexes required for transport; EV: extracellular vesicle; FRAP: fluorescence recovery after photobleaching; FL: full length; FZD: frizzled class receptor; GST: glutathione S-transferase; HIF: human intestinal fibroblast; HMGB1: high mobility group box 1; IKBKB: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase subunit beta; IL6: interleukin 6; LDELS: LC3-dependent EV loading and secretion; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MD: middle domain; MEFs: mouse embryonic fibroblasts; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MVB: multivesicular body; NFKB: nuclear factor kappa B; NFKBIA: NFKB inhibitor alpha; PDCD6IP: programmed cell death 6 interacting protein; PLA: proximity ligation assay; RELA/p65: RELA proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; SAFB: scaffold attachment factor B; SES-CD: Simple Endoscopic Score for Crohn disease; SIM: super-resolution structured illumination microscopy; SMAD3: SMAD family member 3; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; SRD: spectrin repeat domain; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TFRC: transferrin receptor; TGFB1: transforming growth factor beta 1; TGOLN2: trans-golgi network protein 2; TNBS: 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; VCA: Verprolin homology, Central and Acidic; WASHC: WASH complex subunit; WLS: Wnt ligand secretion mediator; WCL: whole cell lysates; WNT: Wnt family member; WT, wild type.
Cuproptosis, a copper-dependent form of programmed cell death, has been implicated in the pathogenesis of acute kidney injury (AKI). Nitroxyl (HNO), the one-electron reduced and protonated form of nitric oxide (NO), is an emerging regulator of cellular function. However, the role of HNO in modulating cuproptosis during AKI remains largely unexplored.This study aims to investigate the effect of HNO on cuproptosis in a murine model of renal ischemia-reperfusion (IR) injury.An in vitro hypoxia/reoxygenation (HR) model using human kidney-2 (HK-2) cells and an in vivo renal IR injury mouse model were employed to determine the role of HNO in renal function.Here, we showed that baseline HNO fluorescence in HK-2 cells was enhanced by the HNO donor Angeli's salt (AS) and by the combined treatment with the hydrogen sulfide (H2S) donor NaHS and the nitric oxide (NO) donor SNP. In contrast, HR exposure significantly reduced HNO fluorescence. AS administration mitigated oxidative stress, decreased cell apoptosis, and reduced inflammation, along with an overall improvement in renal function in mice with renal IR injury. Pretreatment with AS significantly reduced HR-induced cell vitality injury, apoptosis, reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation, and mitochondrial dysfunction in HK-2 cells. HNO reduced cuproptosis by downregulating the protein expression of ferredoxin 1 (FDX1) and lipoyl synthase (LIAS), and suppressing copper accumulation. The copper ion carrier Elesclomol abolished the renal benefits of HNO. Mechanistic studies showed that HNO promoted the lysosomal localization and degradation of the copper transporter solute carrier family 31 member 1 (SLC31A1), thereby alleviating cuproptosis in renal tubular epithelial cells. Importantly, overexpression of SLC31A1 prevented the effects of HNO on cellular injury and cuproptosis.In summary, the present study demonstrated that HNO promotes the autophagy-lysosomal degradation of SLC31A1, which in turn inhibits cuproptosis and effectively alleviates AKI. These results provide experimental support for the potential of HNO as a promising agent for AKI.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
To observe the effect of electroacupuncture (EA) at "Zusanli" (ST36) on blood glucose in acute hyperglycemia (AH), low-risk prediabetes (LRP) and high-risk prediabetes (HRP) mice, and to explore its underlying mechanisms in regulating the function of pancreatic β - cells in LRP.This study included 3 (AH, LRP and HRP) experiments. In each part of the experiments, C57BL/6J mice were randomly divided into normal, model and EA groups, with 6 mice in each group in AH and HRP experiments, and 18 mice in LRP experiment. The AH model was established by intraperitoneal injection of 2 g/kg glucose solution. After injection, EA (1 mA, 10 Hz) was applied to bilateral "Zusanli" (ST36) for 20 min. The LRP model was established by feeding the mice with high-fat diet for 1 week. From the 4th day when the impaired glucose tolerance criteria of prediabetes were reached, EA was applied to bilateral ST36, with the parameters being the same as above, once a day for a total of 4 times. In the HRP experiment, the animal model was established by feeding the mice with a high-fat diet for 8 weeks. Four weeks after beginning of the modeling, EA intervention (1 mA, 10 Hz) was performed at ST36 for 20 min, 3 times a week for a total of 12 times. Blood glucose and glucose tolerance were measured using a glucose meter, and serum glycated hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), insulin, and glucagon levels were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Changes of the pancreatic morphology were examined by HE staining. The expression levels of activating transcription factor 6 (ATF6), endoplasmic reticulum to nucleus signaling 1 (ERN1), eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 alpha kinase 3 (EIF2AK3), p21 (a cell cycle factor in cellular senescence), muscarinic acetylcholine receptor M2 (M2-AchR) and M3-AchR in the pancreatic β-cells were detected using Western blot, and the expression levels of pancreatic and duodenal homeobox factor-1 (PDX-1), beta-cell-specific transcription factor (MAFA) and forkhead box O1 (FOXO1) mRNAs in the pancreatic β-cells detected using quantitative real-time PCR. The insulin+/P21+ co-positive cells, and the number of ChAT+/c-fos+ co-labeled neurons in the pancreatic ganglia and CTB647/ChAT+/c-fos+ co-labeled neurons in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMV) innervating the pancreas were determined using fluorescent immunohistochemistry.1) In the AH experiment, compared to the normal group, the blood glucose level in the model group was significantly increased 15 min after modeling (P<0.001), without pathological damage in the pancreas, and the serum insulin level was significantly increased after modeling (P<0.05). In comparison with the model group, the blood glucose levels at 30 and 60 min were significantly reduced (all P<0.01), while the serum insulin content was considerably increased (P<0.05) in the EA group, suggesting that EA lowered blood glucose by increasing stress-induced insulin level. 2) In the LRP experiment, compared to the normal group, the blood glucose levels from the 3rd day to the 7th day, and the glucose tolerance from 15 to 120 min were significantly elevated in the model group (P<0.001, P<0.05, P<0.01). No significant changes were found in the serum HbA1c, serum insulin and glucagon levels and in the morphological result of the pancreas tissue in the model group. In comparison with the model group, the blood glucose levels on day 4, 6 and 7, the glucose tolerance at 15, 30, 60 and 120 min were strikingly decreased (P<0.001, P<0.01, P<0.05), while the serum insulin content was notably increased (P<0.05) in the EA group. No significant changes were found in the serum HbA1c and glucagon levels after EA intervention. 3) In the HRP experiment, compared to the normal group, the blood glucose levels from 1 to 8 weeks, the glucose tolerance levels at 15, 30, 60 and 120 min, HbA1c and insulin levels were significantly increased (P<0.001, P<0.05, P<0.01), whereas the serum glucagon level was notably decreased (P<0.05) in the model group, accompanied with an increase of the pancreatic islet volume. Following EA intervention, the blood glucose at the 5th and 6th week, insulin and glucagon levels were considerably down-regulated in the EA group (P<0.01, P<0.05), accompanied with a slight decrease of the pancreatic islet volume. 4) In LRP mice, in comparison with the normal group, the expression levels of M2-AchR and M3-AchR protein were significantly decreased (P<0.05), while the expression levels of ATF6, ERN1, EIF2AK3, P21 and the number of insulin+/P21+ positive cells in the pancreas tissue were significantly increased (P<0.01, P<0.05) in the model group. In contrast to the model group, the EA group had an obvious increase in the number of CTB647/ChAT+/c-fos+ co-labeled neurons in the DMV and ChAT+/c-fos+ co-labeled neurons in the pancreatic ganglia, and the expression of M2-AchR and M3-AchR protein (P<0.05, P<0.01), and a notable down-regulation in the expression levels of ATF6, ERN1, EIF2AK3 and P21 proteins and in the number of pancreatic insulin+/P21+ positive cells (P<0.01, P<0.05). No significant changes were found in the number of CTB647/ChAT+/c-fos+ co-labeled neurons in the DMV and ChAT+/c-fos+ co-labeled neurons in the pancreatic ganglia in the model group, and in the mRNA expression levels of pancreatic PDX1, MAFA and FOXO1 in both model and EA groups.EA at ST36 can promote the restoration of blood glucose balance in the AH, LRP and HRP stages in mice, with the most effective phase being the LRP. The underlying mechanism may be related to its functions in activating vagus nerve to inhibit the endoplasmic reticulum stress in pancreatic β-cells.
Sepsis-induced myocardial injury (SIMI) has become an important cause of death in septic patients, and it is a multi-faceted pathophysiological process. The present study aims to understand how insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding protein 2 (IGF2BP2) regulates cardiomyocyte cuproptosis through an m6A-dependent regulation of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 1 (MAP2K1), and advance our knowledge of SIMI.In vivo and in vitro SIMI models were developed through lipopolysaccharide (LPS) administration in mice and AC16 cardiomyocytes, respectively. The functions of IGF2BP2 and MAP2K1 in regulating cuproptosis under septic myocardial injury were explored through loss- and gain-of-function approaches. Furthermore, RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) and methylated RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP) experiments as well as actinomycin D experiments confirmed the regulatory interaction of IGF2BP2 with MAP2K1.In SIMI models, the IGF2BP2 mRNA and protein expressions were all significantly upregulated, accompanied by myocardial pathological damage and poor cardiac function. Knockdown of IGF2BP2 considerably lessened LPS-induced myocardial injury, lowered copper levels in serum and myocardial tissue, and rectified the changed expression of key cuproptosis-related proteins such as MAP2K1, solute carrier family 31 member 1 (SLC31A1), ferredoxin 1 (FDX1), heat shock protein 70 (HSP70), dihydrolipoamide S-acetyltransferase (DLAT), and lipoyl synthase (LIAS). Mechanistically, IGF2BP2 interacts with MAP2K1 mRNA to improve the mRNA stability and protein expression of MAP2K1 through N6-Methyladenosine (m6A) modification. In addition, overexpression of MAP2K1 abrogated the suppressive effects of IGF2BP2 knockdown on cardiomyocyte cuproptosis.IGF2BP2 improves MAP2K1 expression stability via m6A modification, which promotes cardiomyocyte cuproptosis and worsens SIMI. This mechanism might give some possible therapy targets for curing septic myocardium injury.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Excessive advanced glycation end products (AGEs) can lead to cardiovascular diseases such as myocardial fibrosis (MF). Although studies have found that AGEs induce cuproptosis, and cuproptosis promotes fibrosis, it has not been confirmed whether AGEs promote MF through cuproptosis. AGEs increased intracellular copper levels, promoted the expression of solute carrier family 31 member 1 (SLC31A1), and downregulated the expression of ferredoxin 1 (FDX1), lipoic acid synthetase (LIAS), lipoylated (Lip)-dihydrolipoamide S-succinyltransferase (DLST), and Lip-dihydrolipoamide S-acetyltransferase (DLAT) in cardiac fibroblasts (CFs). All of these key cuproptosis regulatory gene expression abnormalities indicate that cuproptosis is induced. AGEs also decreased adenosine triphosphate content and inhibited the activities of mitochondrial complexes I and III, but these regulatory effects were significantly weakened after SLC31A1 downregulation. Meanwhile, AGEs significantly promoted the expression of alpha smooth muscle actin, collagen I, collagen III, and transforming growth factor-β1, while SLC31A1 siRNA or copper chelator ammonium tetrathiomolybdate (TTM) blocked these promoting effects. Similarly, CuCl2 also induced fibrosis gene expression, while SLC31A1 overexpression (SLC31A1-O) further enhanced these effects, but TTM reduced CF activation induced by CuCl2 plus SLC31A1-O. In addition, AGEs significantly promoted cell migration and enhanced the expression and secretion of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 and MMP-9, while SLC31A1 siRNA or TTM weakened these effects. SLC31A1-O plus copper treatment also had similar effects to AGEs, and these effects could also be blocked by TTM. Therefore, AGEs enhance copper transport by promoting SLC31A1 expression, which leads to intracellular copper overload and then induces cuproptosis, and finally promotes CF activation and migration.
Previous studies demonstrate that individuals with elevated plasma trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) suffer worse myocardial injury following acute myocardial infarction. However, whether TMAO promotes myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury (MIRI) remained undefined. The purpose of this study was to determine if TMAO exacerbated MIRI. In this study, we found that TMAO exacerbated MIRI in both in vivo mouse models of ischemia-reperfusion and in vitro primary cardiomyocyte models of hypoxia/reoxygenation. Mechanistically, RNA sequencing and gene set enrichment analysis indicated that TMAO suppressed mitochondrial function-related pathways. Further, we confirmed that TMAO aggravated mitochondrial dysfunction during ischemia-reperfusion, manifested as ultrastructural damage, reduced mitochondrial membrane potential, elevated reactive oxygen species overproduction, impaired mitochondrial respiration and inhibited energy metabolism. TMAO-induced mitochondrial dysfunction was mediated through ferredoxin reductase suppression, as ferredoxin reductase overexpression reversed TMAO-exacerbated injury. TMAO bound to eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2-alpha kinase 3 (PERK) and sustained PERK/eukaryotic initiation factor-2α (eIF2α) pathway activation during IR. Pharmacological inhibition of PERK/eIF2α signaling (using GSK2606414 and ISRIB) reversed TMAO-induced ferredoxin reductase suppression, mitochondrial dysfunction, and MIRI exacerbation, indicating the key role of PERK/eIF2α signaling in this process. These findings provide novel insight that TMAO is a risk factor in MIRI. Through maintaining PERK/eIF2α activation, TMAO inhibits ferredoxin reductase expression thereby impairing ferredoxin reductase-dependent mitochondrial function. Pharmacological inhibition of the PERK/eIF2α pathway may represent a therapeutic strategy for alleviating MIRI with elevated TMAO.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Dendritic cells (DCs) are crucial antigen-presenting cells that mediate the interplay between innate and adaptive immunity during lethal infections. Here, we report the key role of reticulophagy regulator 1 (RETREG1), a selective autophagy receptor, in maintaining DC maturation and function in the early stage of sepsis. Mechanistically, activating transcription factor 6 (ATF6) acts as a direct transcription factor regulating RETREG1 expression in response to bacterial lipopolysaccharide-induced endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. RETREG1-mediated reticulophagy reduces excessive ER stress via the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 alpha kinase 3 (EIF2AK3) signaling pathway and inhibits membrane-associated RING-CH-type finger 8 (MARCH8)-dependent major histocompatibility complex class II (MHC-II) ubiquitination to maintain antigen presentation in DCs. Consequently, Cd11ccreRetreg1fl/fl, Retreg1-/-, and Atf6-/- mice exhibit impaired DC function, leading to immunosuppression and multiple organ failure in experimental sepsis. Exploration of samples from septic patients, combined with single-cell bioinformatics analysis, further suggests that a deficit in reticulophagy in DCs is associated with the development of human sepsis.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Oxidative stress and the newly characterized mode of regulated cell death, cuproptosis, drive the progression of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD). Electroacupuncture (EA) is a promising non-drug treatment, but its mechanisms are unclear. This study investigated the benefits of EA in a high-fat diet (HFD)-induced MASLD mouse model, focusing on the NRF2/ARE pathway, cuproptosis, and the gut-liver axis.MASLD was established in C57BL/6J mice via a 16-week HFD. Mice were arbitrarily categorized into four groups: control (C, normal chow diet), model (M, HFD), EA (HFD + EA), and EA plus NRF2 inhibitor (EM, HFD + EA + inhibitor). A 4-week intervention was then conducted. Post-intervention, body weight alterations were tracked, and serum, liver tissue, and fecal specimens were gathered for subsequent examination.EA treatment significantly improved the metabolic profile, reducing body weight, lipids, and hepatic inflammation. It attenuated oxidative stress by enhancing antioxidant capacity and activated the NRF2/ARE pathway. EA also modulated cuproptosis-related genes (upregulating dihydrolipoamide S-acetyltransferase (Dlat), downregulating solute carrier family 31 member 1 (Slc31a1), ferredoxin reductase (Fdx1), and heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70)). Furthermore, EA remodeled the gut microbiota (increasing Limosilactobacillusand Ligilactobacillus) and elevated related metabolites.EA ameliorates MASLD through multiple mechanisms, including regulating lipid metabolism, attenuating inflammation and oxidative stress, activating NRF2, suppressing cuproptosis, and altering the gut-liver axis, collectively contributing to hepatic improvement.© 2026 Deng et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42515677 is a review article
(1) Background: Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a chronic inflammatory rheumatic disease associated with immune dysregulation. The TYRO3, AXL, and MER (TAM) signaling pathway, comprising AXL receptor tyrosine kinase (AXL), MER tyrosine kinase (MERTK), growth arrest-specific 6 (GAS6), and Protein S, is a key regulator of immune homeostasis. This study investigated these receptor-ligand components in patients with AS. (2) Methods: A total of 45 patients with AS and 44 healthy controls were enrolled. Serum GAS6 and Protein S levels were measured by ELISA, and AXL and MERTK expression levels were analyzed by RT-qPCR. Clinical and inflammatory parameters were also evaluated. (3) Results: ESR, CRP, and IL-6 levels were significantly higher, whereas Protein S levels were significantly lower in patients with AS than in controls. No significant differences were observed in GAS6, AXL, or MERTK expression levels, although lower expression trends were detected in patients. Logistic regression analysis identified CRP, IL-6, Protein S, and AXL expression as variables independently associated with AS. ROC analysis demonstrated significant discriminatory performance for AXL expression. (4) Conclusions: Alterations in the TAM signaling pathway, particularly reduced Protein S levels and altered AXL expression, may contribute to immune dysregulation and persistent inflammation in AS.
Polyamine metabolism is essential for cell proliferation and differentiation; however, its specific role in insulin signaling regulation remains poorly understood. Here, we uncover an unexpected role for spermidine synthase (SRM) in linking lipid overload to insulin resistance. In a teleost fish model, we demonstrate high fat diet (HFD) suppresses hepatic SRM expression via X-box binding protein 1 (XBP1)-dependent transcriptional repression. Loss of SRM, either by pharmacological inhibition or siRNA-mediated knockdown, impairs insulin signaling, as evidenced by decreased AKT phosphorylation and increased expression of gluconeogenic enzymes. Conversely, overexpression of SRM enhances insulin sensitivity and suppresses gluconeogenesis. Mechanistically, SRM-mediated regulation of the insulin signaling pathway is dependent on its downstream metabolite spermidine (SPD), which functions through AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) pathway, as the beneficial effects of SPD are abolished by the AMPK inhibitor Compound C. In addition, dietary HFD significantly decreases hepatic SPD levels by 35% and reduces the p-AKT/AKT ratio by 58% in croaker, while it elevates blood glucose levels by 39%. Conversely, SPD supplementation increases the p-AKT/AKT ratio by 131% and lowers blood glucose levels by 20%, compared with the HFD group. Taken together, our findings establish the SRM-SPD axis as a critical link between nutritional stress and insulin resistance, and highlight SPD as a potential nutraceutical for combating insulin resistance and glucose intolerance in teleost fish.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Osteoporosis, a prevalent age-related disease, is characterized by impaired bone formation and an increased risk of fractures. Current anabolic treatments primarily rely on biologics, which are costly and require inconvenient administration. Identifying regulators of osteoblastogenesis that are amenable to small-molecule targeting is essential for developing more accessible therapies. Through an unbiased kinome-wide RNAi screen in primary murine calvarial osteoblasts, we identified the AXL receptor tyrosine kinase (Axl) as a negative regulator of osteoblast differentiation. Axl is most highly expressed in undifferentiated and early differentiated osteoblasts, with a rapid decline in expression during osteoblast maturation. siRNA-mediated knockdown of Axl or pharmacological inhibition with the small molecule BGB324 significantly enhanced osteoblast differentiation and mineralization in vitro. In mice, BGB324 treatment significantly increased bone mass by promoting bone formation. Mechanistically, Axl knockdown or inhibition upregulated interferon-stimulated gene 15 (Isg15), while Isg15 knockdown impaired osteoblast differentiation and enhanced Erk phosphorylation, leading to increased expression of osteoblast-specific genes. Consistently, double knockdown experiments demonstrated that simultaneous loss of Axl with either Isg15 or Mapk1, but not other interferon-related genes, reversed the Axl knockdown-induced increase in osteoblast differentiation, reinforcing their mechanistic involvement. Collectively, our study identifies Axl as a promising therapeutic target for osteoporosis and other bone-related disorders.© 2026. The Author(s).
T-2 toxin, a prevalent mycotoxin in feed, poses severe health risks to poultry. While its systemic toxicity is recognized, its neurotoxic effects in birds, and effective countermeasures, remain underexplored. Sodium butyrate (NaB), a green feed additive, has shown broad biological benefits, but its potential to alleviate T-2-induced neurotoxicity is unclear.This study aimed to investigate the neurotoxic mechanisms of T-2 toxin in quails and evaluate the protective role of sodium butyrate.Two-hundred-and-forty 10-day-old quails were randomly assigned to Control, T-2 toxin (0.9 mg/kg), NaB (500 mg/kg), and T-2+NaB groups. After 14 and 28 days, brain tissues were collected for histopathological (hematoxylin-eosin [HE], Nissl, Fluoro-Jade B [FJB] staining) and molecular analyses (RT-qPCR, Western blot, semi-quantitative PCR) to assess oxidative stress, inflammation, and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress.T-2 toxin induced severe brain damage, characterized by neuronal vacuolization, loss of Nissl bodies, and degeneration. It concurrently activated oxidative stress (upregulated Nrf2 [nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2], HO-1 [heme oxygenase-1], NQO1 [NAD(P)H: quinone oxidoreductase 1]), neuroinflammation (elevated TNF-α [tumor necrosis factor-alpha], IL-1β [interleukin-1 beta], IL-6 [interleukin-6], IL-18 [interleukin-18]), and ER stress (increased GRP78 [glucose-regulated protein 78], IRE1α [inositol-requiring enzyme 1 alpha], TRAF2 [TNF receptor-associated factor 2], IKKα/β [IκB kinase alpha/beta], XBP1 [X-box binding protein 1]). Sodium butyrate supplementation significantly mitigated these histopathological alterations and downregulated the overactivated molecular pathways across all three axes.This study demonstrates that sodium butyrate confers comprehensive neuroprotection against T-2 toxin in quails by co-ordinately alleviating oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, and ER stress. These findings provide a mechanistic basis for using NaB as a dietary intervention to combat mycotoxin-related neurotoxicity in poultry.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Diabetic retinopathy and age-related macular degeneration are driven by retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) dysfunction accompanied by chronic inflammation and an upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). This study investigated the protective effects of Eruca sativa freeze-dried extract against metabolic and inflammatory stress in the ARPE-19 retinal epithelial cell line. Gene expression levels and protein contents were assessed via quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and Western blots. VEGF secretion and cell calcium levels were quantified using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and Fluo-4 NW calcium assay, respectively. Freeze-dried E. sativa extract (ESF) exposure did not induce any cytotoxicity across the concentration range tested. Under thapsigargin (Tg) stimulation, ESF at 1 mg/mL significantly reduced VEGF expression and protein secretion by 32% and 34%, respectively. Tg-induced calcium mobilization within cells and the expression of unfolded protein response markers, including CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein homologous protein, binding immunoglobulin protein, and X-box binding protein-1, remained unchanged following ESF exposure. Under lipopolysaccharide stimulation, in a dose-dependent manner, ESF suppressed nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) phosphorylation, tumor necrosis factor-α, and interleukin-1β expression; however, c-Jun N-terminal kinase signaling was not affected. Hot-air-dried E. sativa extract demonstrated contrasting regulatory profiles, which exhibited a broader modulation of endoplasmic reticulum stress and mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling. Collectively, the findings demonstrate that ESF selectively attenuates inflammatory and angiogenic responses by specifically inhibiting the NF-κB-VEGF axis. Dehydration, therefore, is a critical method determining ESF bioactivity, preserving native phytochemicals that confer focused anti-inflammatory and anti-angiogenic efficacy in RPE cells.© 2026 The Korean Society of Food Science and Nutrition.
White spot syndrome virus (WSSV) devastates shrimp aquaculture, yet safe antivirals remain scarce. Here we identify a druggable host-directed pathway centered on hemocyanin (HMC). This pathway coordinates endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-mitochondrial crosstalk to promote WSSV replication, which could be counteracted by the natural anthraquinone emodin. In Litopenaeus vannamei, emodin suppressed viral replication with a half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) of 1.174 μM, improved survival in both therapeutic and prophylactic regimens, remained effective after per os administration, and retained antiviral activity in water for up to 4 d. Target fishing, orthogonal biophysics, and docking analyses show that emodin binds HMC (Kd = 4.49 μM) and interferes with HMC-HSPA5/BiP (heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 5) association. Mechanistically, emodin weakens the ITPR/IP3R (inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor)-VDAC (voltage dependent anion channel)-MCU (mitochondrial calcium uniporter) conduit at ER-mitochondrial contact sites, thereby limiting Ca2+ transfer, restoring mitochondrial membrane potential and organelle spacing, and attenuating ER stress. Untargeted metabolomics revealed that WSSV induced phosphoinositide and amino acid dysregulation, whereas emodin selectively normalizes phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns) and phosphatidylinositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (PtdIns[1,4,5]P3) signaling and rebalances amino acid, tricarboxylic acid (TCA) intermediates. Correspondingly, emodin inhibited phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-AKT/protein kinase B-MTOR (mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase) complex 1 (MTORC1) signaling and restored lysosome-dependent macroautophagy/autophagy. HMC RNAi or ITPR and MCU inhibition phenocopied emodin, whereas exogenous HMC or ER stress activation exacerbated infection and was mitigated by emodin or MCU blockade. These findings establish HMC-anchored ER-mitochondrial contact as a central proviral vulnerability and position emodin as a practical scaffold for next-generation antivirals in aquaculture.Abbreviations: 2-APB: 2-aminoethyl diphenylborinate; 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ΔΨm: mitochondrial membrane potential; AKT/protein kinase B: AKT serine/threonine kinase; ATG1/ULK1: autophagy related 1; ATG13: autophagy related 13; BSA: bovine serum albumin; CETSA: cellular thermal shift assay; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; DAPI: 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DDIT3/Chop: DNA damage inducible transcript 3; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; EAS6B: epoxy-activated sepharose 6B; EGTA: ethylene glycol tetraacetic acid; EIF4EBP1: eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1; EPC: epithelioma papulosum cyprini; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; HMC: hemocyanin; HPLC-MS: high performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry; HRP: horseradish peroxidase; HSPA5/BiP: heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 5; HSPA9/GRP75: heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 5; ITPR/IP3R: inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; LAMP1: lysosome associated membrane protein 1; LC-MS: liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry; MAMs: mitochondria-associated ER membranes; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MCU: mitochondrial calcium uniporter; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MTORC1: MTOR complex 1; OPLS-DA: orthogonal partial least squares-discriminant analysis; PA: phosphatidic acid; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PC: phosphatidylcholine; PCA: principal component analysis; PE: phosphatidylethanolamine; PI3K: phosphoinositide 3-kinase; PLS-DA: partial least squares-discriminant analysis; PS: phosphatidylserine; PtdIns: phosphatidylinositol; PtdIns(1,4,5)P3: phosphatidylinositol (1,4,5)-trisphosphate; PtdIns(3,4,5)P3: phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate; PtdIns(4,5)P2: phosphatidylinositol (4,5)-bisphosphate; RPS6KB1/S6K1: ribosomal protein S6 kinase B1; SDS-PAGE: sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TCA: tricarboxylic acid cycle; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TFEB: transcription factor EB; UPR: unfolded protein response; VDAC: voltage dependent anion channel; WSSV: white spot syndrome virus; XBP1: X-box binding protein 1.
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a debilitating psychiatric disorder with limited effective pharmacological options. Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and mitochondrial dysfunction have emerged as pivotal pathological mechanisms in PTSD pathophysiology, yet therapies targeting these pathways remain largely unexplored. Citicoline, recognized for its neuroprotective properties and capacity to modulate mitochondrial homeostasis, presents a promising candidate for intervention. This study investigated citicoline's therapeutic efficacy against behavioral and hippocampal molecular abnormalities induced by single prolonged stress (SPS) in male mice. Thirty-six mice were subdivided into control, citicoline (Citi) (100 mg/kg, p.o for 7 days), SPS (2-h restraint, 20-min forced swim, ether exposure), and SPS + Citi (SPS followed by citicoline for 7 days) groups. Citicoline administration effectively reversed stress-induced behavioral impairments in social novelty preference, marble burying, and cue-induced freezing. At the molecular level, citicoline restored ER homeostasis by attenuating the toxic unfolded protein response characterized by reductions in phosphorylated protein kinase RNA-like ER kinase, activating transcription factor (ATF) 4, and ATF6 while upregulating the protective X-box binding protein 1. Such improvements were accompanied by reactivation of impaired mitophagy through enhanced PTEN-induced kinase 1 and parkin expression, facilitating clearance of damaged mitochondria and reactive oxygen species. Furthermore, citicoline effectively countered oxidative stress, evidenced by suppressing malondialdehyde-mediated lipid peroxidation while restoring glutathione antioxidant reserves. Citicoline also normalized mitochondrial biogenesis by upregulating peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator 1-alpha and prevented neuronal apoptosis by suppressing caspase-3. Collectively, these findings establish citicoline as a promising multi-targeted therapeutic candidate for behavioral and hippocampal molecular abnormalities after SPS in male mice.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
BRAFV600E mutation is one of the most common oncogenic drivers in gliomas, sharing the highest incidence in pediatric low-grade gliomas (~ 20%) and being frequently associated with poor prognosis. Although combination therapies targeting both BRAFV600E and downstream MAPK signaling have been developed, their efficacy is substantially limited by acquired drug resistance. Consequently, identifying the underlying mechanisms of resistance and novel therapeutic vulnerabilities remains an urgent need.Using patient gene expression profiles, immunohistochemistry on glioma samples, glioma cell lines, and a Drosophila glioma model, we identified Protein Tyrosine Kinase 2 Beta (PTK2B) as a druggable vulnerability in BRAFV600E glioma. Loss-of-function studies were achieved by PTK2B knockdown in DBTRG-05MG cells and Fak knockout in Drosophila, assessing effects on tumor survival/proliferation. The underlying signaling mechanisms were investigated using RNA sequencing, proteomics and a suite of assays (e.g., Western blot, immunofluorescence, flow cytometry). Finally, the reciprocal compensatory mechanism between PTK2B and MAPK signaling was established in both cellular and Drosophila models, and the synergistic effect of their co-inhibition was validated in DBTRG-05MG and AM-38 cells.PTK2B and its Drosophila orthologue Focal adhesion kinase (Fak) are highly expressed in BRAFV600E/dRafGOF glioma, and their inhibition significantly suppresses tumor growth. Our studies revealed that PTK2B knockdown triggers potent ferroptosis in glioma cells through endoplasmic reticulum stress-induced autophagic flux disruption, a mechanism which is partially overlapped with the cell death induced by MAPK signaling inhibition. We uncovered the interlocking mechanism between highly expressed PTK2B and hyperactive MAPK signaling in BRAFV600E glioma, wherein suppression of either one prompts compensatory upregulation of the other, thereby attenuating tumor cell death under the stress. Simultaneous inhibition of PTK2B and MAPK signaling achieves strong synergistic anti-tumor effect, highlighting the therapeutic promise of this combination strategy.Our findings establish PTK2B as a critical regulator and co-targetable vulnerability in BRAFV600E glioma. We delineate a novel interlocking mechanism wherein PTK2B and MAPK engage in reciprocal negative feedback regulation, enabling adaptive resistance. This work provides a compelling mechanistic rationale for co-targeting PTK2B and MAPK to disrupt this survival axis and overcome therapeutic resistance.© 2026. The Author(s).
Memory T-cell inflation is a distinctive immunological phenomenon observed during persistent viral infections such as cytomegalovirus (CMV). Unlike conventional memory T-cell responses, which contract after infection resolution, a subset of CMV-specific T cells undergoes a progressive and sustained expansion, termed "inflation", which is thought to be critical for long-term immune surveillance. The molecular mechanisms that govern memory T-cell inflation remain incompletely understood, yet they are pivotal for understanding immune persistence and designing strategies against chronic viral infections. In this study, we investigated the role of MAPK-activated protein kinase 2 (MK2), a key downstream effector of p38 MAPK signaling, in regulating T-cell responses during murine CMV (MCMV) infection. Using MK2 knockout (MK2-KO) mice, we demonstrate that MK2 deficiency alters the dynamics of MCMV-specific CD8+ T-cell responses without impairing viral control or tissue replication. MK2 deficiency led to a reduction in noninflationary MCMV-specific CD8+ T cells during acute infection, followed by enhanced expansion of inflationary CD8+ T-cell subsets during latent infection. Furthermore, MK2-KO mice exhibited impaired effector differentiation, as evidenced by decreased expression of the terminal differentiation marker KLRG1 on MCMV-specific CD8+ T cells. Collectively, these findings identify MK2 as an important regulator of CD8+ T-cell magnitude, kinetics, and phenotype during both acute and latent MCMV infection. By demonstrating a role of MK2 in the regulation of memory T-cell inflation, this study provides new mechanistic insight into immune regulation with implications for vaccination, chronic infection, and immune aging.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Macroautophagy/autophagy represents a promising therapeutic target in oncology, exhibiting context-dependent roles in tumor progression. Kinase inhibitors are a large group of anti-cancer drugs, and elucidating the regulatory effects of different kinase inhibitors on autophagy offers a valuable strategy to advance our understanding of autophagy regulation in cancer and develop innovative anti-cancer therapies. In this study, we developed a drug screening platform and performed high-content screening using a kinase inhibitor library. The screening identified PTK2/FAK (protein tyrosine kinase 2) inhibitors as potent autophagy inducers. Mechanistic investigations revealed that PTK2/FAK inhibition triggers rapid autophagic flux through a non-classical mechanism dependent on PTK2/FAK expression, which is associated with the spatial redistribution of ER exit sites (ERES). Further analysis demonstrated that PTK2/FAK inhibitor (FAKi)-induced ERES-associated autophagy is not contingent upon full PREB/SEC12 and SEC16 expression, but is sensitized to TMED9 expression level. Additionally, we identified AKAP13 as a novel FAKi-responsive protein that undergoes dephosphorylation upon FAKi treatment and contributes to TMED9-mediated ERES-associated autophagy. Given that ERES-associated autophagy is initiated through membrane contact between ERES and the ER-Golgi intermediate compartment (ERGIC), we further observed enhanced TMED9-ERGIC interactions following FAKi treatment. Furthermore, functional studies confirmed that FAKi-induced autophagy promotes pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) cell survival both in vitro and in vivo. Collectively, our work unveils a previously unrecognized mechanism of FAKi-mediated autophagy induction and provides new insights for developing targeted therapies against PDAC.Abbreviations: AKAP13: A-kinase anchoring protein 13; AMPK: AMP-activated protein kinase; BAF: bafilomycin A1; ECM: extracellular matrix; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ERES: endoplasmic reticulum exit sites; ERGIC: ER-Golgi intermediate compartment; GSK: GSK2256098; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; PDAC: pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma; PI3K: phosphoinositide 3-kinase; PI4KB: phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase beta; PTK2/FAK: protein tyrosine kinase 2; TMED9: transmembrane p24 trafficking protein 9; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1.
Stroke remains a major cause of mortality and disability, highlighting the need for new therapeutic targets. This study aimed to systematically identify druggable genes causally associated with stroke risk using genetic and transcriptomic data. A total of 5883 druggable genes were compiled from the Drug-Gene Interaction Database and previous reviews. We integrated data from a large-scale stroke GWAS with blood and brain expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) for druggable genes and performed a two-sample Mendelian randomization analysis using eQTLs as genetic instruments for gene expression. Significant findings were validated using colocalization analysis. Expression of prioritized genes was further examined in external bulk (GSE140275) and single-cell (GSE174574) RNA-seq datasets. Finally, protein-protein interaction networks and the Drug Signature Database were employed for downstream functional and therapeutic prediction. The intersection of eQTL data identified 3453 genes in blood and 3150 genes in brain tissues. Mendelian randomization analysis identified ten gene-stroke associations (3 in blood, 7 in brain). Colocalization analysis supported a shared causal variant for 5 of these genes, indicated by high posterior probability of hypothesis 4 values, suggesting potential pathogenic roles. The protein-protein interaction network highlighted 5 core druggable genes (protein tyrosine kinase 2, cyclin-dependent kinase 6, ring finger protein 43, papilin proteoglycan-like sulfated glycoprotein, and coagulation factor II) interacting with 20 predicted genes. Myosin light chain kinase inhibitor 7 and staurosporine were the 2 most significant compounds interacting with these genes, followed by simvastatin and cortisol succinate. This study uncovered potential stroke mechanisms and therapeutic targets using integrated multi-omics data, providing a foundation for future clinical applications and drug development strategies. Five druggable genes were identified in stroke (protein tyrosine kinase 2, cyclin-dependent kinase 6, ring finger protein 43, papilin proteoglycan-like sulfated glycoprotein, and coagulation factor II). Myosin light chain kinase inhibitor 7, staurosporine, simvastatin, and cortisol succinate were identified as potential drug candidates for stroke. These results could add additional tools to manage stroke.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Cardiac fibrosis is a defining pathological feature of diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM), and excessive activation of cardiac fibroblasts plays a critical role in regulating cardiomyocyte function through paracrine signaling. CCN1 (cellular communication network factor 1), an extracellular matrix protein involved in intercellular communication, has been suggested to influence cardiac remodeling, although its specific impact on cardiomyocytes in DCM has remained unclear. In this study, we found that CCN1 expression was markedly elevated in cardiac tissues from DCM mouse models and in insulin-resistant cell models, with fibroblasts serving as the primary source. Proteomic analysis and co-culture experiments demonstrated that CCN1 suppressed cardiomyocyte macroautophagy/autophagy. To determine its role in vivo, we generated fibroblast-specific ccn1 knockout mice and established a DCM model, demonstrating that ccn1 deletion ameliorated cardiac dysfunction and restored autophagic activity. We further identified ITGAV-ITGB1/integrin αvβ1 as the receptor mediating CCN1 signaling in cardiomyocytes. Molecular dynamics simulations and co-immunoprecipitation experiments confirmed that CCN1 engaged ITGAV-ITGB1/integrin αvβ1 through its cysteine-knot-containing (CT) domain. Mechanistically, this interaction activated the downstream PTK2/FAK-MTOR signaling pathway, leading to inhibition of cardiomyocyte autophagy. Together, these findings reveal a previously unrecognized fibroblast-cardiomyocyte signaling axis in which fibroblast-derived CCN1 drives DCM progression by suppressing autophagy through ITGAV-ITGB1/integrin αvβ1-dependent signaling. This work provides mechanistic insight into the pathogenesis of DCM and identifies CCN1 as a potential therapeutic target for mitigating disease onset and progression.Abbreviations: AAV9: adeno-associated virus serotype 9; ADGRE1/EMR1/F4/80: adhesion G protein-coupled receptor E1; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BSA: bovine serum albumin; C8: compound 8; CCN1: cellular communication network factor 1; CF: cardiac fibroblast; CSA: cross-sectional area; DCM: diabetic cardiomyopathy; EIF4EBP1: eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; HE: hematoxylin and eosin; HFD: high-fat diet; HG: high glucose; IR: insulin resistance; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MD: molecular dynamics; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; NRCM: neonatal rat cardiomyocyte; PDGFRA: platelet derived growth factor receptor alpha; PECAM1/CD31: platelet and endothelial cell adhesion molecule 1; PTK2/FAK: protein tyrosine kinase 2; PTPRC/CD45: protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type C; RPS6KB1: ribosomal protein S6 kinase B1; S100A4/FSP1: S100 calcium binding protein A4; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STZ: streptozotocin; TUNEL: terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling; WGA: wheat germ agglutinin.
Molecular targeted therapies play a crucial role in the management of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Lenvatinib is a standard targeted agent for advanced HCC, while quercetin has emerged as a promising natural compound with anti-HCC potential. This study investigates the combined effect of quercetin and lenvatinib on HCC.The human HCC cell line Huh7 and a nude mouse subcutaneous xenograft model were utilized. We evaluated cell proliferation, clonogenicity, invasion, migration, and apoptosis through Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), clonogenic, Transwell, and flow cytometry assays, respectively. Network pharmacology analysis was performed identify common targets. The protein expression levels of B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2), Bcl-2 associated X-protein (Bax), E-cadherin, N-cadherin, and protein tyrosine kinase 2 (PTK2) were assessed by Western blotting. In vivo experiments were conducted to validate the anti-tumor efficacy of the combination treatment.The combination of quercetin and lenvatinib significantly enhanced inhibition of Huh7 cell proliferation, colony formation, invasion, and migration (p < 0.01) and promoted apoptosis (p < 0.01) compared to individual treatments. Mechanistically, the combination treatment decreased the expression of Bcl-2 and N-cadherin while upregulating Bax and E-cadherin. PTK2 was identified as a key shared target, and the combination most effectively suppressed its protein expression. In vivo, the combination group demonstrated a higher tumor inhibition rate (p < 0.01) and a Combination Index (CDI) of 0.753.Quercetin significantly enhances the anti-tumor efficacy of lenvatinib, likely through synergistic inhibition of PTK2 expression.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
BACKGROUND: Genome-wide association studies have shown that polymorphisms in PTK2B (Protein Tyrosine Kinase 2 Beta), encoding the calcium-sensitive tyrosine kinase PYK2 (Proline-rich tyrosine kinase 2), are associated with an increased risk of Alzheimer’s disease (AD). However, it remains unclear which genetic variants of PTK2B are functionally important. A recent transcriptome-wide association study has identified alternative splicing of exon 31 in PTK2B as being associated with AD, and proposed rs2251430 as the relevant splicing quantitative trait locus (sQTL). Here, we aimed to elucidate the regulatory mechanisms and functional significance of exon 31 splicing. METHODS: Alternative splicing of exon 31 was evaluated using publicly available RNA-seq data. To investigate the regulation of exon 31 splicing, we performed RT-PCR, RNA pull-down assays, Liquid Chromatography–Tandem Mass Spectrometry, and RNA immunoprecipitation. Western blotting, immunofluorescence, and co-immunoprecipitation analyses were conducted to examine the effects of exon 31 and its polymorphisms on PYK2 protein expression and function. The impact of exon 31 on cellular phenotypes was further assessed using antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) treatment in HeLa and HMC3 cells. RESULTS: We detected exon 31 skipping in certain human cell types, but not in mice, and observed its increase in microglia during AD progression. We then identified rs751019 and rs751018, both located near rs2251430, as sQTLs that affect exon 31 splicing, with rs751019 having a greater impact. Among RNA-binding proteins that interact with the surrounding sequence of rs751019, PCBP1 and PCBP2 were found to redundantly regulate exon 31 inclusion. PYK2 lacking exon 31 exhibited reduced protein expression and kinase activity, which in turn resulted in diminished phosphorylation of its substrate, GSK3β, with little change in calmodulin binding and intracellular localization. Moreover, ASO-induced exon 31 skipping decreased cell migration in a wound healing assay. It also increased multinucleation in human microglia-like HMC3 cells, a process recently identified in protective microglia. CONCLUSIONS: Our study validates rs751019 and rs751018 as functional sQTLs that influence PTK2B exon 31 splicing. It also identifies species-specific alternative splicing of exon 31 as a modulator of PYK2 expression and kinase activity, thereby linking sQTL-associated genetic variants to molecular and cellular changes that may underlie AD pathogenesis.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a potent chemotherapeutic agent widely used to treat various malignancies; however, its dose-dependent cardiotoxicity severely limits long-term clinical application. Loss of Dual Specificity Phosphatase 4 (DUSP4) has been reported in multiple cancer types and is associated with aberrant activation of the Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway, which regulates chemotherapy-induced apoptosis. Nevertheless, the role of DUSP4 in DOX-induced myocardial injury remains poorly understood. In this study, we explored the function of DUSP4 in DOX-induced cardiotoxicity using HL-1 cardiomyocytes and a DOX-treated C57BL/6 mouse model. DUSP4 expression was markedly decreased in both in vitro and in vivo settings. Concurrently, apoptosis- and autophagy-related proteins-including cleaved Caspase-3, Bax, LC3B II/LC3B I, and Beclin-1-were significantly upregulated, whereas Bcl-2 and P62 were downregulated. Overexpression of DUSP4 attenuated DOX-induced cardiotoxicity, while DUSP4 knockdown exacerbated apoptosis and autophagy. Mechanistically, activation of the p38 Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase (p38 MAPK) and its downstream target MAPK-activated protein kinase 2 (MK2) was observed in both models. Pharmacological activation of the p38 MAPK/MK2 pathway abolished the cardioprotective effects mediated by DUSP4 overexpression. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that DUSP4 alleviates DOX-induced cardiotoxicity by suppressing the p38 MAPK/MK2 signaling cascade, highlighting the DUSP4 axis as a potential therapeutic target to improve cardiac safety during DOX-based chemotherapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
To investigate the key targets and mechanisms of the Wenyang Huayin decoction (WYHYD, ) in treating bronchial asthma with cold fluid retention syndrome using network pharmacology and animal experiments.On the one hand, we used network pharmacology method to explored the chemical components of the WYHYD and the main targets of bronchial asthma were acquired. Besides, a protein interaction network was built after protein interaction analysis to find potential protein functional modules. Then, we constructed the "WYHYD component-bronchial asthma target-pathway" network. On the other hand, the experimental intervention was as follows: first, we formed a rat model of bronchial asthma. Thereafter, we used the WYHYD to treat the disease while observing autophagy-related indicators as the core target of network pharmacology.The network pharmacology revealed that there are 122 potential therapeutic targets in treating bronchial asthma with WYHYD. The biological processes mainly involved in the WYHYD included Gene Ontology: 0110032: positive regulation of G2/MI transition of the medical cell cycle etc. and four major signaling pathways were involved. During laboratory investigations, various signs and clinical manifestations of the rat model group were the same. After administering the WYHYD, lung function, pathological sections, inflammatory factors, and other microscopic indicators improved to varying degrees, providing evidence for the study results. Meanwhile, we verified that the core targets of WYHYD in treating asthma through the intervention of autophagy are tumor necrosis factor, caspase 8, interleukin 1 beta, sirtuin 1, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3, C-C chemokine receptor type 7, L/YN kinase, and protein tyrosine kinase 2.This preliminary study revealed the treatment process of bronchial asthma with multi-component, multi-target, and multi-pathway mechanisms of the WYHYD.
It is well established that the early stage of mechanical unloading in both humans and animals is characterized by a decline in the activity of the key cellular energy sensor, AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). This decline triggers signaling pathways that drive myosin phenotype remodeling and muscle atrophy. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the reduction in AMPK activity under these conditions remain poorly understood. We hypothesized that elevated activity of protein kinase D1 (PKD1) could contribute to the decline in AMPK activity during the initial stage of rat hindlimb unloading. The present study demonstrates that the suppression of upregulated PKD1 activity via a specific inhibitor (CRT0066101) during 24-hour unloading results in the restoration of AMPK activity in the rat soleus muscle. Thus, we have shown for the first time the contribution of PKD1 to the regulation of AMPK activity in the mammalian postural muscle during the initial stage of hindlimb unloading.© 2026. Pleiades Publishing, Ltd.
Heat stroke causes life-threatening systemic inflammation and multiorgan injury, but the intracellular mechanisms that sustain inflammatory amplification after heat exposure remain unclear. Here, using heat stroke mouse models, genetic NLRP3 deletion, pharmacological inhibition, myeloid-specific NLRP3 deficiency, macrophage depletion, and heat-stressed macrophage systems, we show that tissue macrophage NLRP3 inflammasome activation is a central driver of interleukin-1β/interleukin-18 release, organ injury, and mortality. Mechanistically, heat stroke enhances phospholipase C delta 4 signaling, promotes diacylglycerol accumulation at trans-Golgi network/Golgi-associated membranes, recruits protein kinase D1, and increases phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase β-dependent phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate production. This lipid remodeling supports NLRP3 recruitment, ASC speck formation, caspase-1 activation, and inflammatory cytokine release. Phospholipase C delta 4 knockdown preferentially suppresses NLRP3 activation induced by heat stroke, but not by canonical stimuli. These findings link heat stroke to membrane lipid remodeling and spatial inflammasome assembly, identifying a potential organ-protective pathway in heat stroke.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
This study aimed to investigate the antiinfi ammatory effects and potential molecular mechanisms of star anise-cinnamon compound essential oil (SCEO) against multidrug-resistant Salmonella Thompson (MDR S. Thompson) infection in mice.An intestinal infection model was established in mice by oral gavage of MDR S. Thompson (1×109 CFU/mL) for two consecutive days. Experimental animals were randomly assigned to a blank group, a model group, a levofioxacin group (positive control), and SCEO low-, medium-, and high-dose groups (100, 200, and 400mg/kg, respectively).SCEO intervention significantly alleviated clinical symptoms in infected mice, restored pathological damage in the liver and ileum, and normalized the liver index. Gas chromatography-mass spectrom- etry (GC-MS) analysis identified trans-cinnamaldehyde and trans-anethole as the primary active components of SCEO. Network pharmacology and molecular docking analyses revealed strong binding affinities between these components and Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), RELA, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 14 (MAPK14) (Vina score < -5.0 kcal/mol). Further in vivo and in vitro experiments demonstrated that SCEO significantly downregulated the mRNA expression of key cytokines, including Tlr4, interleukin-6 (Il6), tumor necrosis factor (Tnf), and interleukin-17A (Il17a), and suppressed the overactivation of the TLR4/nuclear factor kappa-B (NFĸB)/MAPK signaling pathway. SCEO effectively alleviated Salmonella-induced infiammatory damage, a protective process potentially me- diated through the modulation of the TLR4/NFĸB/MAPK signaling axis. These findings provide a theoretical basis for the development of SCEO as a natural, plant-derived anti-infective agent.Copyright © 2026 Xu, Zhang, Lin, Luan, Shao, Chen, Liang, Huang, Zhang, Tao, Tang, Huang, Huang, Li and Chen.
Exploring the mechanism of Ding-Zhi-Xiao-Wan(DZXW) on disorders of sphingolipid metabolism in Alzheimer's disease(AD) through network pharmacology, molecular docking and animal experiments. The chemical constituents of DZXW were obtained via the TCMSP, with target prediction conducted using the SwissTargetPrediction database; the GeneCards database was consulted to identify targets associated with AD and sphingolipid metabolism disorders. The intersecting targets from these three databases underwent GO and KEGG enrichment analyses. Cytoscape was employed to construct networks and screen core components and targets for molecular docking validation. Animal experiments employed AD model mice, utilising the water maze, ELISA, qPCR, LC-MS, and Western blot to evaluate the effects of DZXW on behavioural, oxidative stress, inflammatory, apoptotic, and sphingolipid metabolism-related indicators. Network pharmacology identified 51 common targets, with enrichment analysis indicating their involvement in multiple pathways including signal transduction, apoptosis, and the phosphatidylinositol 3kinase/protein kinase B(PI3K/Akt) pathway. Molecular docking revealed that multiple components within DZXW(such as cerevisterol and isorhamnetin) interacted with targets including caspase 3(CASP3), mitogen-activated protein kinase 14(MAPK14), estrogen receptor 1(ESR1), and silent information regulator factor 2 related enzyme 1(SIRT1), with SIRT1 being particularly crucial. Animal studies indicate that DZXW enhances learning and memory capacity in AD mice, reduces ceramide levels, and inhibits oxidation factors [4-hydroxynonenal(4-HNE), 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine(8-OHdG), nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase 4(NOX4)] and inflammatory factors [tumour necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), interleukin(IL)-1β], downregulates CASP3, MAPK14, sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase 1-3(SMPD1-3), B cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia/lymphoma-2(Bcl-2)-associated X protein(Bax), and increases IL-10, ESR1, mammalian target of rapamycin(mTOR), SIRT1, PI3K phosphorylation, Akt phosphorylation, and Bcl-2. In conclusion, DZXW may improve sphingolipid metabolism disorders in AD by inhibiting neuronal apoptosis and mitigating oxidative and inflammatory responses through the SIRT1/PI3K/Akt pathway.
Rosavin, a characteristic component of Rhodiola rosea L., exhibits various pharmacological activities, including antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects. However, its role in alcoholic fatty liver disease (AFLD) remains unclear. The aim of this study was to investigate the protective effects of Rosavin against AFLD and to elucidate its underlying molecular mechanisms. In this study, Rosavin (25 μM and 50 μM for in vitro; 100 and 200 mg/kg/d via oral gavage for 10 days in vivo) was found to significantly mitigate alcohol-induced hepatic lipid accumulation, enhance antioxidant capacity, and alleviate liver injury, demonstrating its protective effects against AFLD both in vitro and in vivo. Through network pharmacology and molecular docking, six potential targets of Rosavin in AFLD were identified: nitric oxide synthase 3 (NOS3), proto-oncogene tyrosine-protein kinase Src (SRC), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARG), mitogen-activated protein kinase 14 (MAPK14, also known as p38α), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα), and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1). RT-qPCR and western blotting confirmed that Rosavin downregulates PPARG, TNFα, and IGF-1 expression and suppresses p38 phosphorylation. Rescue experiments further revealed that the suppressive effect of Rosavin on PPARG expression is reversed by the PPARG-specific agonist Mesalazine, which not only counteracts the protective effects of Rosavin but also reverses Rosavin-induced changes in MAPK14 and IGF-1 expression. In conclusion, Rosavin alleviates AFLD by downregulating PPARG and subsequently modulating the MAPK14 and IGF-1 signaling pathways. This study provides the first evidence that Rosavin protects against AFLD via PPARG, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic agent for AFLD treatment.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental condition characterized by social communication deficits, restricted interests, and repetitive behaviors. Emerging evidence links several autism susceptibility genes to the nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) pathway, which maintains the homeostasis of gene transcription and protein translation in the nervous system. However, the role of Suppressor with morphogenetic effect on genitalia 7 (Smg7), an essential NMD factor, in brain function and ASD remains largely unknown. Here, we generated an Emx1-Cre-mediated conditional Smg7 knockout (Smg7cko) mouse model to investigate its neurological consequences. We found that both male and female Smg7cko mice exhibited autism-like behaviors, including impaired social interaction and communication, repetitive behaviors, anxiety-like traits, and learning and memory deficits. These phenotypes were accompanied by neuronal hyperexcitability and increased dendritic spine density in layer II/III pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus and the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Notably, Smg7 deletion led to pronounced upregulation of Protein Kinase D1 (PKD1) transcripts, an NMD target, in these brain regions. Strikingly, adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated PKD1 knockdown (AAVsh-PKD1) in the hippocampus and mPFC significantly rescued social deficits in Smg7-deficient mice. Together, these findings identify Smg7 as a key regulator of neuronal function and behavior, and reveal PKD1 upregulation as a pathogenic mechanism underlying ASD-like phenotypes, providing new insight into NMD deficiency in ASD pathophysiology and a potential therapeutic target.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42186337
Herein, the phosphorylation profiles of shrimp muscle proteins after chilling storage at 4 °C for 120 h were investigated by phosphoproteomics. A total of 1255 differential abundance phosphopeptides (DAPPs), encompassing 2128 phosphorylated sites in 608 phosphoproteins, were identified, and they were dominantly enriched in ultrastructure assembly and myofilament contraction of sarcomere architecture, mTOR signaling, autophagy, and energy metabolism pathways. Meanwhile, the dephosphorylations of kinases, phosphatases, and assembly-regulating factors were revealed through SP and R/KxxS motifs. Moreover, the predominant nodes in the protein-protein interaction (PPI) network included mitogen-activated protein kinase 14, ubiquitin-ribosomal protein eL40 fusion protein, cAMP-dependent protein kinase catalytic subunit, heat shock protein, and myosin light chain kinase; meanwhile, these proteins significantly correlated with texture deterioration. Subsequently, the associated protein MAPK was verified by Western blotting. Collectively, this study deciphered the undefined mechanisms governing muscle softening of L. vannamei during refrigeration from a phosphoproteomics perspective and provided valuable targets against softening.
UV radiation (UVR), a known skin-stressor causing inflammation, aging and carcinogenesis, activates the arylhydrocarbon receptor (AhR) and downstream molecules which are crucially involved in photo-induced skin damage. In this study, the potent UV protector melatonin was investigated regarding UVR-mediated activation of AhR and downstream molecules including tumor suppressor p27, DNA double-strand break marker pH2AX, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), mitogen-activated protein kinase-14 (MAPK14)/p38α, matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP2) and tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase-1 (TIMP1). They were studied in ex vivo human full-thickness skin irradiated with UVA/B light (0, 300 mJ/cm2) 0 h and 24 h post UV exposure, comparing skin pre-incubated with or without melatonin. Protein expression was analysed by immunofluorescence staining, gene expression by real-time qPCR. UV exposure significantly up-regulated AhR (p < 0.0001), p27 (p < 0.001) and pH2AX (p < 0.0001) protein expression 0 h and 24 h post-irradiation which was significantly counteracted by melatonin (10-3 M) at both time points. Further, melatonin significantly reduced gene expression of AhR by 21.2% (p < 0.01), p27 by 24.8% (p < 0.01), COX-2 by 42.9% (p < 0.001), MAPK14 by 6.6% (p < 0.05) and MMP2 by 8.2% (p < 0.05), and caused a 10.2% (n.s.) TIMP1 reduction tendency 24 h post-irradiation. Thus, melatonin prevented UV-dependent expression of AhR and downstream regulators of AhR-mediated processes possibly related to inflammation, cellular aging and carcinogenesis on protein and gene level in UV-irradiated skin.© 2026 The Author(s). Experimental Dermatology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42300785
Growth factor signaling governs essential cellular processes, and its precision relies on interactions with heparan sulfate on the cell surface. The sulfation pattern of heparan sulfate dictates its capacity to bind specific growth factors and their receptors, thereby controlling the signaling strength and specificity. Extracellular endosulfatases, including sulfatase 1 and sulfatase 2, further modulate these interactions by selectively removing sulfate groups from defined regions of heparan sulfate. Although these enzymes are known to influence developmental- and disease-related signaling, their direct effects on growth factor recognition have remained unclear. Using a panel of bioengineered heparan sulfate conjugates with defined sulfation compositions, this study examines how the structural features of heparan sulfate govern its regulation by the sulfatases. By tracking enzyme binding and catalytic remodeling, we found that both enzymes rely on two coordinated mechanisms: catalytic desulfation of heparan sulfate and competitive binding that transiently prevents growth factor association. The balance between catalytic remodeling and competitive binding depends on the sulfation characteristics of the heparan sulfate substrate and the identity of the growth factor and differs between the two enzyme isoforms. These findings provide a new framework for understanding how extracellular sulfatases shape growth factor signaling in both development and disease.
Endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EndMT) has emerged as a pathophysiological process responsible for various chronic vascular diseases, particularly atherosclerosis. However, the molecular pathways that govern EndMT are poorly defined. This study aimed to investigate whether sulfatase-1 (SULF1) plays a role in oxidative stress-induced EndMT and atherosclerosis.The cellular composition of the carotid atherosclerotic core was analysed using a single-cell transcriptome, followed by in vivo and in vitro validation of the underlying molecular mechanism. Single-cell transcriptome analysis revealed that SULF1 plays important roles in both EndMT and atherosclerosis. Additionally, oxidative stress promoted the upregulation of SULF1 expression in endothelial cells and induced EndMT. Notably, SULF1 overexpression promoted EndMT and exacerbated plaque instability, whereas SULF1 silencing promoted endothelial protein expression and mitigated the increase in mesenchymal proteins, effectively blocking EndMT. Subsequent experiments revealed that SULF1 induced this transition through HMOX1-induced iron overload, which further activated the WNT/SLUG pathway and promoted EndMT. Aerobic glycolysis increased in endothelium exposed to oxidative stress, accompanied by elevated lactate levels, which increased histone H3 lysine 18 lactylation (H3K18la). Mechanistically, oxidative stress significantly decreased the expression of histone deacetylase (HDAC) 3, which precisely regulated H3K18la enrichment at the SULF1 promoter, thereby activating SULF1 transcription and promoting EndMT.This study highlights the critical role of SULF1 in EndMT and reveals precise crosstalk between metabolism and epigenetics via H3K18la by HDAC3 during EndMT-induced atherogenesis, offering novel therapeutic targets for atherosclerosis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the major cancers that threaten human health. Although the CRC census has been gradually popularized, due to the lack of obvious symptoms in the early stage, it is difficult to detect, and the rapid progression and strong metastasis after onset result in a high incidence of CRC. Therefore, the current research aims to identify more powerful molecular targets and biomarkers for the diagnosis, treatment and clinical research of CRC.The limma package was used to analyze datasets GSE4107, GSE110223, and GSE110224 from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in CRC. Functional enrichment analysis of DEGs was performed using Gene Ontology (GO) and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG). To further screen for key genes, the DEGs were submitted to the STRING database to construct a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network. Clinical data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database were used to analyze the role of key genes in CRC. Key DEGs were validated using immunohistochemistry, Western blot, and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). Survival analysis of key DEGs was performed using the GEPIA database, and survival curves were plotted. The expression levels of DEGs were quantitatively analyzed in samples from 80 CRC patients and 80 healthy controls. Machine learning algorithms were applied to analyze key DEGs and construct a diagnostic model for CRC. A receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was plotted to evaluate the performance of the diagnostic model.A total of 981 (GSE4107), 155 (GSE110223), and 280 (GSE110224) DEGs were identified from the GEO databases, among which 152 DEGs were expressed in at least two datasets. GO and KEGG enrichment analyses revealed that these DEGs were widely involved in biological processes such as the muscle system process and extracellular matrix organization. Downregulated genes were involved in pathways including bile secretion and retinol metabolism. PPI network analysis identified 20 overlapping genes, among which CXCL8 and SULF1 were hub up-regulated genes, while PBLD and 17 others were hub down-regulated genes. mRNA-Seq data and RT-qPCR validation showed that CXCL8 and SULF1 were significantly upregulated in CRC samples, whereas PBLD expression levels were higher in normal tissues compared to CRC tissues. Kaplan-Meier curve analysis indicated that high mRNA expression of SULF1 was significantly associated with poorer overall survival in CRC patients, while high mRNA expression of LRRC19 was associated with better overall survival. In contrast, the mRNA expression of CXCL8 and PBLD showed no significant association with overall survival. Gene expression of SULF1 was significantly correlated with disease-free survival, whereas the gene expression of LRRC19, CXCL8, and PBLD showed no significant correlation with disease-free survival. Immunohistochemical analysis further validated the expression levels of SULF1, CXCL8, and PBLD. The machine learning model demonstrated high efficacy in assisting CRC diagnosis, with an AUC value exceeding 0.8, and the most effective model achieved an AUC value greater than 0.9. Decision curve and calibration curve analyses further confirmed its significant clinical net benefit and good consistency.These four identified DEGs (SULF1, CXCL8, LRRC19, and PBLD) may contribute to the treatment of CRC as a new therapeutic target and provide valuable biomarkers for cancer metastasis research.The four identified DEGs were combined with machine learning to construct a CRC diagnostic model with high clinical application value.© 2025 Li et al.
Vasculogenic mimicry (VM), a process in which cancer cells form endothelial cell-independent vascular networks, is a hallmark of tumor aggressiveness in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) and supports tumor growth and metastasis. This study aims to identify and validate key genes associated with VM formation in LUAD, and to elucidate their functional roles and clinical significance.Transcriptomic data from LUAD samples were analyzed using differential expression analysis (DEA) and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) to identify VM-associated genes. Machine learning algorithms were applied to refine the selection and identify hub genes. Functional enrichment and immune infiltration analyses were performed. The role of SULF1 in VM was further validated through in vitro and in vivo experiments.We identified 10,810 differentially expressed genes. WGCNA revealed 101 VM-associated genes, predominantly within the "yellow" and "brown" modules. Machine learning pinpointed three key regulators: downregulated decorin (DCN) and upregulated nucleoplasmin 3 (NPM3) and sulfatase 1 (SULF1). Functional enrichment analysis highlighted their involvement in extracellular matrix (ECM) organization and ribosomal pathways. Immune infiltration analysis indicated a positive correlation between DCN and immune cell presence, whereas NPM3 and SULF1 showed negative correlations. Critically, SULF1 overexpression promoted VM formation in vitro by enhancing cell migration and invasion, mediated through the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)/transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β)/Vimentin signaling axis, and accelerated tumor growth in vivo.We identified DCN, NPM3, and SULF1 as key biomarkers of VM in LUAD. SULF1, in particular, plays a central role in driving VM formation and tumor progression. These findings offer novel mechanistic insights and highlight potential therapeutic targets for LUAD treatment.© 2025. The Author(s).
Src homology 3 (SH3) proteins regulate numerous fibroproliferative pathophenotypes including pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) but are challenging to target therapeutically. We innovated a peptidomimetic that occupies the canonical focal adhesion kinase (FAK) binding site on the SH3 domain of the neural precursor cell expressed, developmentally down-regulated 9 (NEDD9) protein, a pro-PAH regulator. Peptidomimetic derivatization with a bromoacetamide group alkylated a NEDD9 cysteine positioned uniquely among SH3 domains (Cys18), which stabilized the RT loop, prevented FAK binding, and inhibited human pulmonary artery endothelial cell (HPAEC) migration. When linked to a thalidomide moiety, the peptide showed degrader activity of NEDD9 protein and, therefore, we next investigated therapeutic application of NEDD9 inhibition. In HPAECs, si-NEDD9 downregulated sulfatase-1, which increased podosome rosette formation and cell migration via 6-O-desulfation of glycocalyx-forming heparan sulfate proteoglycans, and reversed vascular remodeling and PAH in vivo. Whereas sulfatase-1 overexpression decreased pulmonary endothelial podosome formation, cell migration, and tube formation and increased collagen III synthesis, sulfatase-1 knockdown prevented fibroproliferative remodeling and pulmonary hypertension in PAH in vivo. These data leverage cysteinyl thiol reactivity to establish an SH3 domain-targeting structure-validated covalent peptide and identify two convergent mechanisms through NEDD9 that control endothelial phenotype, including reverse remodeling via sulfatase-1 transcriptional control. Overall, this study advances an SH3-specific therapeutic approach with relevance to PAH and other fibroproliferative pathophenotypes.
Plants perceive proteins from insect-derived oral secretion (OS) and regulate the classical endogenous hormone jasmonic acid to resist insects, but the role of abscisic acid (ABA) in this process is poorly understood. In this study, we used the specialist herbivorous caterpillar Plutella xylostella and cruciferous plants as a model to investigate how the ABA hormone responds to the OS and its core peptide from the insect. Through proteomics and Western blotting analysis, glucosinolate sulfatase 1 (GSS1) was identified in OS. Yeast library screening revealed that GSS1 and its 28-amino-acid core peptide (GSS1-P1) interact with ABA biosynthetic enzyme ABA1. Arabidopsis overexpressing GSS1 and plants treated with synthetic GSS1-P1 showed elevated ABA levels. Transcriptome analysis and RT-qPCR confirmed that GSS1-P1 upregulates WRKY18 and ABA1 expression, modulating ABA production. Both GSS1-P1 application and optimal ABA concentrations enhanced plant resistance to herbivory. Our study shows that GSS1 and its peptide stimulate ABA production, boosting plant-insect resistance and highlighting ABA's potential role in pest-stress response.
The highest incidence and cancer-related mortality rate among women worldwide is due to breast cancer. Triple-negative breast cancers (TNBC) are associated with more inferior outcomes than other breast cancers because of their progressive nature and the deficit in available therapies. Therefore, there is a need for new therapeutic approaches. Our lab determined that chemotherapy induces the release of extracellular adenosine triphosphate (eATP), and, hence, augments TNBC cells' response to chemotherapy. Despite this, eATP concentrations are restricted by a variety of extracellular ATPases. We propose that, as an ATPase inhibitor, heparan sulfate (HS) would augment eATP concentrations and TNBC vulnerability induced by chemotherapy. Sulfatase 2 (SULF2) removes sulfate from HS, the functional group essential for ATPase inhibition. Consequently, we propose that TNBC cell death and eATP release induced by chemotherapy would be intensified by SULF2 inhibitors. We examined eATP and cell viability in paclitaxel-treated TNBC and nontumorigenic immortal mammary epithelial MCF-10A cells in the presence of OKN-007, a selective SULF2 inhibitor, and/or heparan sodium sulfate. Furthermore, sulfatase 1 (SULF1) and SULF2 protein expressions were ascertained. We found that the expression of SULF2 was greater in TNBC cell lines when compared to MCF-10A cells. The release of eATP and loss of TNBC cell viability induced by chemotherapy was enhanced by OKN-007. The co-treatment of chemotherapy and OKN-007 also attenuated cancer-initiating cells. This data implies that the combination of SULF2 inhibitors with chemotherapy augments eATP and decreases cell viability of TNBC greater than chemotherapy alone.
Patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) have poor prognoses. Sulfatase 1 (SULF1) is an extracellular neutral sulfatase and is involved in multiple physiological processes. Hence, this study investigated the function and possible mechanisms of SULF1 in NSCLC.Difference in SULF1 expression level between tumors and normal lung tissues was analyzed through bioinformatics and clinical sampling, and the effects of SULF1 expression on prognosis were investigated through Kaplan-Meier analysis. SULF1 level in NSCLC cells was modulated through small interfering ribonucleic acid interference. NSC228155, which is an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway agonist, was for handling NSCLC cells. SULF1 expression level was tested through quantitative reverse transcriptase real-time polymerase chain reaction. Cell proliferation, migration, and invasion were evaluated with cell counting kit-8, 5-ethynyl-2-deoxyuridine, and transwell assays, and the levels of epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT)- and EGFR/MAPK pathway-related proteins were detected through Western blot.Bioinformatics and clinical samples showed that NSCLC tumor tissues had elevated SULF1 expression levels relative to those of normal tissues (P < 0.05). Patients with NSCLC and high SULF1 expression levels experienced poorer prognosis than those of low SULF1 expression levels (P < 0.05). SULF1 knockdown repressed the malignant biological behavior, including proliferation, migration, and invasion, of the NSCLC cells (P < 0.05). Mechanistically, SULF1 knockdown augmented E-cadherin level and abated N-cadherin and vimentin protein levels (P < 0.05). These results confirmed that EMT was inhibited. In addition, the knockdown of SULF1 reduced the phosphorylation of EGFR, extracellular signal-regulated kinase, p38 MAPK and c-Jun N-terminal kinase, and NSC228155 partially reversed these changes, which were affected by SULF1 knockdown. Meanwhile, NSC228155 partially reversed the inhibition of EMT, migration, and invasion affected by SULF1 knockdown.SULF1 knockdown inhibits the proliferation, migration, invasion, and EMT of NSCLC cells by inactivating EGFR/MAPK pathway.© 2024 The Author(s). Published by Scientific Scholar.
Tumor stroma plays a critical role in fostering tumor progression and metastasis. Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAF) are a major component of the tumor stroma. Identifying the key molecular determinants for the protumor properties of CAFs could enable the development of more effective treatment strategies. In this study, through analyses of single-cell sequencing data, we identified a population of CAFs expressing high levels of sulfatase 1 (SULF1), which was associated with poor prognosis in patients with colorectal cancer. Colorectal cancer models using mice with conditional SULF1 knockout in fibroblasts revealed the tumor-supportive function of SULF1+ CAFs. Mechanistically, SULF1+ CAFs enhanced the release of VEGFA from heparan sulfate proteoglycan. The increased bioavailability of VEGFA initiated the deposition of extracellular matrix and enhanced angiogenesis. In addition, intestinal microbiota-produced butyrate suppressed SULF1 expression in CAFs through its histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitory activity. The insufficient butyrate production in patients with colorectal cancer increased the abundance of SULF1+ CAFs, thereby promoting tumor progression. Importantly, tumor growth inhibition by HDAC was dependent on SULF1 expression in CAFs, and patients with colorectal cancer with more SULF1+ CAFs were more responsive to treatment with the HDAC inhibitor chidamide. Collectively, these findings unveil the critical role of SULF1+ CAFs in colorectal cancer and provide a strategy to stratify patients with colorectal cancer for HDAC inhibitor treatment. Significance: SULF1+ cancer-associated fibroblasts play a tumor-promoting role in colorectal cancer by stimulating extracellular matrix deposition and angiogenesis and can serve as a biomarker for the therapeutic response to HDAC inhibitors in patients.©2024 American Association for Cancer Research.
The Golgi complex undergoes dynamic remodeling during the cell cycle, as ribbon unlinking in G2 is required for proper mitotic progression. Failure to fragment the ribbon leads to G2 arrest, whereas forced mitotic entry with intact ribbons results in multipolar spindle formation. Phosphorylation of the Golgi matrix protein GRASP65 at serine 277 (S277) in rat (S274 in human) by JNK2 is essential for ribbon unlinking, but its upstream regulation has remained unclear. Here, we generated and validated a phospho-specific antibody recognizing human GRASP65 phosphorylated at S274, enabling accurate detection of this modification. Using this tool, we identify protein kinase D2 (PKD2) as a critical upstream regulator required for GRASP65 phosphorylation and Golgi unlinking. GRASP65-S274 phosphorylation increases during G2 and is markedly reduced upon PKD2 inhibition or depletion, resulting in decreased Golgi unlinking and delayed G2/M transition. Conversely, PKD2-activating stimuli, including phorbol esters and nocodazole, enhance GRASP65 phosphorylation in a PKD2-dependent manner. These findings define PKD2 as a key regulator of the JNK2-GRASP65 signaling axis controlling Golgi disassembly at the G2/M transition. Moreover, the phospho-specific GRASP65 antibody described here provides a valuable tool to dissect upstream signaling mechanisms and to identify the initial triggers driving Golgi unlinking at G2 entry.
Small molecule anti-cancer drugs can cause adverse effects; most commonly low blood cell counts. Protein kinase D2 (PKD2) is highly expressed in neutrophils, and this study investigated the role of PKD2 inhibition on the survival of human neutrophils using small molecule compounds.The kinase inhibition profiles of two Polo like kinase 1 (PLK1) inhibitors, TAK-960 derivative and Compound A were evaluated using 265 kinase enzyme assays. HL60 cells were differentiated into neutrophil-like cells, followed by siRNA-mediated knockdown of PKD2, and cell viability was assessed. Compounds were tested for their effects on cell viability in differentiated HL60 cells and human neutrophils isolated from healthy donors. Furthermore, correlation between PKD2 inhibition and peripheral white blood cell counts was assessed for 23 difluoropyrimido-diazepinone compounds in nude mice bearing HT-29 human colon cancer cell xenografts.PKD2 knockdown resulted in reduced cell viability in differentiated HL60 cells. Compound A, which selectively inhibits PKD2, significantly reduced the viability of differentiated HL60 cells and human neutrophils, to a greater extent than TAK-960. In contrast, suppression of PLK3, which is also highly expressed in neutrophils, did not affect cell viability, indicating that PKD2 is critical for neutrophil survival. Moreover, a significant positive correlation was observed between PKD2 inhibition and white blood cell counts in nude mice (Pearson's correlation, r=0.75, p=0.009).PKD2 plays a crucial role in human neutrophil survival. Minimizing PKD2 inhibition during small-molecule drug design could be essential to reduce the risk of neutropenia in patients under anti-cancer treatment.Copyright © 2026 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Bladder cancer, a widely occurring malignant tumor worldwide, is closely related to the abnormal activation of numerous signaling pathways during its initiation, progression, and metastasis. Protein kinase D2 (PRKD2), as a member of the protein kinase D family, exerts a pivotal influence on human cancers. This research aimed to elucidate the involvement and mechanism of PRKD2 in bladder cancer.PRKD2 expression was analyzed using quantitative real-time PCR, Western blotting and tissue microarray (n = 30). Functional experiments were conducted to evaluate the biological phenotypes of cells, including CCK-8 assay, colony formation assay, flow cytometry analysis, scratch wound healing assay, Transwell migration assay, and mouse xenograft model. The phosphorylation of MCM2 by PRKD2 was examined using site-directed mutagenesis and immunoprecipitation assay assays.Our results revealed markedly elevated expression levels of PRKD2 in bladder cancer compared to control tissues. Increased PRKD2 expression was associated with lymph node metastasis, distant metastasis, advanced TNM staging, and poorer prognosis. Functional experiments demonstrated that depletion of PRKD2 impeded the proliferation, migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition of bladder cancer cells in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, PRKD2 phosphorylates complex component 2 (MCM2) at serine 139. This phosphorylation drives the malignant progression of bladder cancer cells.These findings offer new insights into regulatory mechanisms involving PRKD2 contributing to the malignancy of bladder cancer, thereby presenting a potential therapeutic target.© 2025. The Author(s).
A constitutively active mutant of the receptor protein tyrosine kinase KIT is a major cause of gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GISTs). Recently, we discovered that, during biosynthetic transport, the KIT mutant (KITmut) is retained in the Golgi/trans-Golgi network (TGN), where it activates downstream molecules. This retention is dependent on the phospholipase Cγ2-protein kinase D2-PI4 kinase IIIβ (PLCγ2-PKD2-PI4KIIIβ) pathway, which KITmut activates at the Golgi/TGN. The activated cascade aberrantly recruits GGA1 and the γ-adaptin subunit of AP1, resulting in KITmut retention in the Golgi/TGN. However, the precise mechanisms, including the mediators and effectors of the pathway, remain unclear. In humans, the phosphatidic acid-generating enzymes, phospholipase D1 (PLD1) and PLD2 are known downstream proteins of PKD. In the presence of the PLD inhibitor CAY10594, KITmut is released from the Golgi/TGN and subsequently degraded in lysosomes, leading to signal inactivation. Knockdown experiments indicated that PLD2 plays a role in KITmut retention. KITmut activates PLD2 through PKD2, but not PI4KIIIβ, for Golgi/TGN retention. PLD activity is required for the association of γ-adaptin with GGA1. Therefore, the KIT-PLCγ2-PKD2 pathway separately activates PLD2 and PI4KIIIβ to recruit γ-adaptin and GGA1. Collectively, these results suggest that KITmut retention is dependent on the activation of the PLCγ2-PKD2-PLD2 cascade in GIST cells.© 2025. The Author(s).
Protein kinase D (PKD) family is emerging as relevant regulator of metabolic homeostasis. However, the precise role of PKD2 in modulating hepatic insulin signaling has not been fully elucidated and it is the aim of this study.PKD inhibition was analyzed for insulin signaling in mouse and human hepatocytes. PKD2 was overexpressed in Huh7 hepatocytes and mouse liver, and insulin responses were evaluated. Mice with hepatocyte-specific PKD2 depletion (PKD2ΔHep) and PKD2fl/fl mice were fed a chow (CHD) or high fat diet (HFD) and glucose homeostasis and lipid metabolism were investigated.PKD2 silencing enhanced insulin signaling in hepatocytes, an effect also found in primary hepatocytes from PKD2ΔHep mice. Conversely, a constitutively active PKD2 mutant reduced insulin-stimulated AKT phosphorylation. A more in-depth analysis revealed reduced IRS1 serine phosphorylation under basal conditions and increased IRS1 tyrosine phosphorylation in PKD2ΔHep primary hepatocytes upon insulin stimulation and, importantly PKD co-immunoprecipitates with IRS1. In vivo constitutively active PKD2 overexpression resulted in a moderate impairment of glucose homeostasis and reduced insulin signaling in the liver. On the contrary, HFD-fed PKD2ΔHep male mice displayed improved glucose and pyruvate tolerance, as well as higher peripheral insulin tolerance and enhanced hepatic insulin signaling compared to control PKD2fl/fl mice. Despite of a remodeling of hepatic lipid metabolism in HFD-fed PKD2ΔHep mice, similar steatosis grade was found in both genotypes.Results herein have unveiled an unknown role of PKD2 in the control of insulin signaling in the liver at the level of IRS1 and point PKD2 as a therapeutic target for hepatic insulin resistance.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
Epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) is the deadliest gynecological malignancy with poor prognosis and patient survival outcome. Protein kinase D2 (PKD2) belongs to Ca++/calmodulin-dependent serine/threonine kinase family and its aberrant expression is associated with many cellular and physiological functions associated with tumorigenesis including cell proliferation. We show that PKD2 is activated during G2/M cell cycle transition and its catalytic inactivation by small molecule inhibitor CRT0066101 or genetic knockdown caused suppression of EOC cell proliferation followed by a delay into mitotic entry. Our RNASeq analysis of PKD2-inactivated EOC cells revealed significant downregulation of genes associated with cell cycle including Aurora kinase A, a critical mitotic regulator. Mechanistically, PKD2 positively regulated Aurora kinase A stability at both transcriptional and post-translational levels by interfering with the function of Fbxw7, drove G2/M cell cycle transition and EOC cell proliferation. Moreover, pharmacological inhibition of Aurora kinase A by small molecule CD532 or its shRNA-mediated genetic knockdown suppressed EOC cell proliferation, induced G2/M cell cycle arrest and mitotic catastrophe followed by apoptosis. Taken together, our results indicated that PKD2 positively regulates Aurora kinase A during G2/M cell cycle entry and pharmacological targeting of PKD2/Aurora kinase A signalling axis could serve as a novel therapeutic intervention against a lethal pathology like EOC.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) is deadliest gynecological malignancy with poor prognosis and patient survival. Despite development of several therapeutic interventions such as poly-ADP ribose polymerase (PARP) inhibitors, EOC remains unmanageable and discovery of novel early detection biomarkers and treatment targets are highly warranted. Although neuroendocrine differentiation (NED) is implicated in different human cancers including prostate adenocarcinoma and lung cancer, mechanistic studies concerning NED of epithelial ovarian cancer are lacking. We report that Aurora kinase A drives NED of epithelial ovarian cancer in an ERK1/2-dependent manner and pharmacological and genetic inhibition of Aurora kinase A suppress NED of ovarian cancer. Moreover, we demonstrate that protein kinase D2 positively regulated Aurora kinase A to drive NED. Overexpression of catalytically active PKD2 drives NED and collectively, PKD2 cross talks with Aurora kinase A/ERK1/2 signalling axis to positively regulate NED of EOC. PKD2/Aurora kinase A/ERK1/2 signalling axis is a novel therapeutic target against neuroendocrine differentiated EOC.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Desmoglein-2 (DSG2) is a transmembrane glycoprotein belonging to the desmosomal cadherin family, which mediates cell-cell junctions; regulates cell proliferation, migration, and invasion; and promotes tumor development and metastasis. We previously showed serum DSG2 to be a potential biomarker for the diagnosis of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC), although the significance and underlying molecular mechanisms were not identified. Here, we found that DSG2 was increased in ESCC tissues compared with adjacent tissues. In addition, we demonstrated that DSG2 promoted ESCC cell migration and invasion. Furthermore, using interactome analysis, we identified serine/threonine-protein kinase D2 (PRKD2) as a novel DSG2 kinase that mediates the phosphorylation of DSG2 at threonine 730 (T730). Functionally, DSG2 promoted ESCC cell migration and invasion dependent on DSG2-T730 phosphorylation. Mechanistically, DSG2 T730 phosphorylation activated EGFR, Src, AKT, and ERK signaling pathways. In addition, DSG2 and PRKD2 were positively correlated with each other, and the overall survival time of ESCC patients with high DSG2 and PRKD2 was shorter than that of patients with low DSG2 and PRKD2 levels. In summary, PRKD2 is a novel DSG2 kinase, and PRKD2-mediated DSG2 T730 phosphorylation promotes ESCC progression. These findings may facilitate the development of future therapeutic agents that target DSG2 and DSG2 phosphorylation. © 2024 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.© 2024 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
Our previous work has demonstrated protein kinase D2 (PKD2) played a critical influence in experimental colitis in animal. However, the role of PKD2 in human norovirus (HuNoVs)-induced diarrhea remained unknown. Aquaporin 3 (AQP3) expression, a critical protein mediating diarrhea, was assessed by western blot, qRT-PCR in intestinal epithelial cells (IECs). Luciferase, IF, IP and ChIP assay were used to explore the mechanism through which HuNoVs regulated AQP3. Herein, we found that AQP3 expression was drastically decreased in IECs in response to VP1 transfection, the major capsid protein of HuNoVs, or HuNoVs infection. Mechanistically, HuNoVs triggered phosphorylation of PKD2 through TLR2/MyD88/IRAK4, which further inhibited AP2γ activation and nuclear translocation, leading to suppress AQP3 transactivation in IECs. Most importantly, PKD2 interacted with MyD88/IRAK4, and VP1 overexpression enhanced this complex form, which, in turn, to increase PKD2 phosphorylation. In addition, endogenous PKD2 interacted with AP2γ, and this interaction was enhanced in response to HuNoVs treatment, and subsequently resulting in AP2γ phosphorylation inhibition. Moreover, inhibition of PKD2 activation could reverse the inhibitory effect of HuNoVs on AQP3 expression. In summary, we established a novel mechanism that HuNoV inhibited AQP3 expression through TLR2/MyD88/IRAK4/PKD2 signaling pathway, targeting PKD2 activity could be a promising strategy for prevention of HuNoVs-induced gastroenteritis.Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Ferroptosis is an iron-dependent cell death and affects efficacies of multiple antitumor regimens, showing a great potential in cancer therapy. Protein kinase D2 (PKD2) plays a crucial role in regulating necrosis and apoptosis. However, the relationship of PKD2 and ferroptosis is still elusive. In this study, we mainly analyzed the roles of PKD2 on ferroptosis and chemotherapy in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). We found PKD2 was highly expressed in LUAD and silencing PKD2 could promote erastin-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS), malondialdehyde (MDA) accumulation, intracellular iron content and LUAD cells death. Mechanistically, augmenting PKD2 could prevent autophagic degradation of ferritin, which could be impaired by bafilomycin A1. We further found that PKD2 overexpression would promote LC3B-II, p62/SQSTM1 accumulation and block autophagosome-lysosome fusion in a TFEB-independent manner, which could be impaired by bafilomycin A1. Bafilomycin A1 stimulation could weaken ferroptosis promotion by PKD2 abrogation. Silencing ferritin heavy chain-1 (FTH1) could reverse the resistance to ferroptosis by PKD2 overexpression. Additionally, in vitro and vivo experiments validated PKD2 promoted proliferation, migration and invasion of LUAD cells. PKD2 knockdown or pharmacological inhibition by CRT0066101 could enhance efficacy of carboplatin in LUAD via ferroptosis and apoptosis. Collectively, our study revealed that abrogation of PKD2 could aggravate ferritinophagy-mediated ferroptosis by promoting autophagosome-lysosome fusion and enhance efficacy of carboplatin in LUAD. Targeting PKD2 to induce ferroptosis may be a promising strategy for LUAD therapy.Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Seven in absentia homologue 2 (SIAH2) has been shown to contribute to the progression of various human tumors, including hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, the precise mechanisms by which SIAH2 promotes HCC cell migration remain to be fully elucidated. In this study, we demonstrate that SIAH2 accelerates the invasion and migration of HCC cells by promoting K48-linked polyubiquitination and degradation of EPH receptor B6 (EPHB6). Notably, the invasion and migration of HCC cells regulated by the SIAH2-EPHB6 axis in association with enhanced filopodia formation, a critical early step in cell motility. Furthermore, our findings indicate that the SIAH2-EPHB6 axis promotes filopodia formation in HCC cells by modulating Ras homolog family member F (RHOF). Finally, we investigated the expression correlations among SIAH2, EPHB6, and RHOF using clinical tissue specimens. In summary, SIAH2 accelerates K48-linked polyubiquitination and degradation of EPHB6 to regulate filopodia formation in HCC cells.© 2026. The Author(s).
Castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) progresses despite androgen deprivation therapy, as cancer cells adapt to grow without testosterone, becoming more aggressive and prone to metastasis. CRPC biology complicates the development of effective therapies, posing challenges for patient care. Recent gene-expression and metabolomics studies highlight the Hexosamine Biosynthetic Pathway (HBP) as a critical player, with key components like GNPNAT1 (Glucosamine-phosphate N-acetyltransferase 1) being downregulated in CRPC. GNPNAT1 knockdown in pre-clinical models has been shown to increase growth and metastasis in CRPC tumors, though the mechanisms remain unclear.To investigate the cellular basis of these CRPC phenotypes, we generated a CRISPR-Cas9 knockout model of GNPNAT1 in 22Rv1 CRPC cells, analyzing its impact on transcriptomic and glycoproteomic profiles of cells. We find that HBP inhibition disrupts the cytoskeleton, altering mitotic progression and promoting uncontrolled growth. GNPNAT1 KO cells showed reduced levels of cytoskeletal filaments, such as actin and microtubules, leading to cell structure disorganization and chromosomal mis-segregation. GNPNAT1 inhibition also activated PI3K/AKT signaling, promoting cell proliferation, impaired cell adhesion by mis-localizing Eph Receptor B6, enhancing migration via the RhoA (Ras homolog family member A) pathway and promoting epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition. These findings suggest that HBP plays a critical role in regulating CRPC cell behavior, and targeting this pathway could provide a novel therapeutic approach.
The role of Eph receptors and related ephrin (EFN) ligands (as the largest family of transmembrane-bound RTKs) in immunomodulation in many types of cancer, especially bladder cancer (BLCA), is scarcely known.A pan-cancer dataset was retrieved from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) to explore the relation between Eph receptor/EFN ligand family genes and immunomodulators and tumor-infiltrated immune cells (TIICs). Local BLCA, GSE32894, and GSE31684 cohorts were applied to validate. The IMvigor210 cohort was employed to explore the relationship between EPHB6 and immunotherapy response. Moreover, association between EPHB6 and molecular subtype was investigated to explore potential therapeutic strategies. Immunohistochemical staining of CD8 and CD68 was performed to validate the correlation between EPHB6 and TIICs.The pan-cancer analysis revealed variations in the immunological effects of Eph receptor/EFN ligand family genes across different types of cancer. EPHB6 expression negatively correlated with the expression of the majority of immunomodulators (including HLA and immune checkpoints), and CD8 T cells and macrophages in both the TCGA-BLCA and validation BLCA cohorts, shaping a cold immune microenvironment with inhibited immunity. In the IMvigor210 cohort, patients with high-EPHB6 highly correlated with a non-inflamed, low PD-L1 expression immune phenotype, and correspondingly, with less responders to immunotherapy. The high-EPHB6 group, enriched with the basal subtype, presented significantly fewer TP53 and more FGFR3 genomic alterations. Finally, a novel EPHB6-related Genes signature, with reliable and robust ability in prognosis prediction, was constructed.This study comprehensively investigated the immunological effects of Eph receptor/EFN ligand family genes pan-cancer, and specially identified the immunosuppressive role of EPHB6 in BLCA. Furthermore, EPHB6 may predict the molecular subtype and prognosis of BLCA, and serve as a novel therapeutic target to improve the sensitivity of immunotherapy.Copyright © 2023 Jia, Zhang, Zhou, Yan, Jiang, Xie and Jiang.
Among women, cervical cancer (CC) ranks as the third most frequent form of carcinoma and the fourth greatest cancer-related cause of deaths. There is increasing evidence that points to the dysregulation of EPH receptor B6 (EPHB6) in various cancers. On the other hand, neither the expression nor the function of EPHB6 in CC has been researched. In the first part of this investigation, we analyzed the data from the TCGA and discovered that the level of EPHB6 was much lower in CC tissues than in normal cervical tissues. ROC assays revealed that high EPHB6 expression had an AUC value of 0.835 for CC. The survival study revealed that both the overall and disease-specific survivals in this condition were considerably lower among patients who had a low EPHB6 level compared to those who had a high EPHB6 level. It is important to note that the multivariate COX regression analysis indicated that the expression of EPHB6 was an independent predictive factor. In addition to this, the C-indexes and calibration plots of a nomogram derived from multivariate assays revealed an accurate prediction performance among patients with CC. Immune infiltration analysis indicated that the expression of EPHB6 was positively associated with the levels of Tcm, TReg, B cells, T cells, iDC, T helper cells, cytotoxic cells, and DC, while negatively associated with NK CD56bright cells and neutrophils. In summary, the downregulation of EPHB6 was strongly linked to a more aggressive clinical development of CC, suggesting its potential utility as a diagnostic and therapeutic target in CC.Copyright © 2023 Siyang Xiang et al.
Accumulation of extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins in trabecular meshwork (TM), which leads to increased outflow resistance of aqueous humor and consequently high intraocular pressure, is a major cause of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). According to our preliminary research, the RapGAP protein superfamily member, signal-induced proliferation-associated 1-like 1 protein (SIPA1L1), which is involved in tissue fibrosis, may have an impact on POAG by influencing ECM metabolism of TM. This study aims to confirm these findings and identify effects and cellular mechanisms of SIPA1L1 on ECM changes and phagocytosis in human TM (HTM) cells. Our results showed that the expression of SIPA1L1 in HTM cells was significantly increased by TGF-β2 treatment in label-free quantitative proteomics. The aqueous humor and TM cell concentration of SIPA1L1 in POAG patients was higher than that of control. In HTM cells, TGF-β2 increased expression of SIPA1L1 along with accumulation of ECM, RhoA, and p-cofilin 1. The effects of TGF-β2 were reduced by si-SIPA1L1. TGF-β2 decreased HTM cell phagocytosis by polymerizing cytoskeletal actin filaments, while si-SIPA1L1 increased phagocytosis by disassembling actin filaments. Simultaneously, overexpressing SIPA1L1 alone exhibited comparable effects to that of TGF-β2. Our studies demonstrate that SIPA1L1 not only promotes the production of ECM, but also inhibits its removal by reducing phagocytosis. Targeting SIPA1L1 degradation may become a significant therapy for POAG.
Background: Osteosarcoma (OS) is a common malignant bone tumor. Circular RNAs (circRNAs) exert important roles in the pathogenesis of human cancers, including OS. In this study, the authors focused on the role and mechanism of circRNA signal-induced proliferation-associated 1 like 1 (circ_SIPA1L1) in OS. Methods: The enrichment of SIPA1L1, circ_SIPA1L1, microRNA-379-5p (miR-379-5p), and mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 9 (MAP3K9) was assessed by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Cell proliferation was analyzed by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay. The colony formation capacity was assessed through colony formation assay. Transwell assays were used to detect the migration and invasion abilities. Western blot assay was used to measure the expression of metastasis-related proteins and MAP3K9. The target interactions between the genes in circ_SIPA1L1/miR-379-5p/MAP3K9 axis were predicted by StarBase and confirmed by dual-luciferase reporter assay. The in vivo role of circ_SIPA1L1 was verified by murine xenograft assay. Results: Circ_SIPA1L1 abundance was aberrantly elevated in OS tissues and cell lines. Circ_SIPA1L1 accelerated the proliferation and metastasis abilities of OS cells. Circ_SIPA1L1 promoted the malignant behaviors of OS cells through elevating MAP3K9 level. MiR-379-5p directly bound to circ_SIPA1L1 and MAP3K9. MiR-379-5p interference rescued the abilities of proliferation and metastasis in OS cells, which were suppressed by the silencing of circ_SIPA1L1. Circ_SIPA1L1 promoted the development of OS via miR-379-5p/MAP3K9 in vivo. Conclusion: Circ_SIPA1L1 promoted the progression of OS via miR-379-5p/MAP3K9 axis.
The pedicled greater omentum, when applied onto stressed hearts using omentopexy, has been shown to be protective in humans and animals. The mechanisms underlying cardioprotection using omentopexy remain elusive. This study examined whether macrophage-mediated angiogenesis accounts for the cardioprotective effect of omentopexy in mice.C57BL/6 mice were subjected to minimally invasive transverse aortic constriction for 6 weeks and subsequent cardio-omentopexy for 8 weeks. Control mice underwent the same surgical procedures without aortic constriction or cardio-omentopexy.Transverse aortic constriction led to left ventricular concentric hypertrophy, reduced mitral E/A ratio, increased cardiomyocyte size, and myocardial fibrosis in the mice that underwent sham cardio-omentopexy surgery. The negative effects of transverse aortic constriction were prevented by cardio-omentopexy. Myocardial microvessel density was elevated in the mice that underwent aortic constriction and sham cardio-omentopexy surgery, and cardio-omentopexy further enhanced angiogenesis. Nanostring gene array analysis uncovered the activation of angiogenesis gene networks by cardio-omentopexy. Flow cytometric analysis revealed that cardio-omentopexy triggered the accumulation of cardiac MHCIIloLyve1+TimD4+ (Major histocompatibility complex class IIlow lymphatic vessel endothelial hyaluronan receptor 1+ T cell immunoglobulin and mucin domain conataining 4+) resident macrophages at the omental-cardiac interface. Intriguingly, the depletion of macrophages with clodronate-liposome resulted in the failure of cardio-omentopexy to protect the heart and promote angiogenesis.Cardio-omentopexy protects the heart from pressure overload-elicited left ventricular hypertrophy and dysfunction by promoting myocardial angiogenesis. Cardiac MHCIIloLyve1+TimD4+ resident macrophages play a critical role in the cardioprotective effect and angiogenesis of cardio-omentopexy.© 2022 The Author(s).
Hispanics are disproportionately affected by NAFLD, liver fibrosis, cirrhosis, and HCC. Preventive strategies and noninvasive means to identify those in this population at high risk for liver fibrosis, are urgently needed. We aimed to characterize the gut microbiome signatures and related biological functions associated with liver fibrosis in Hispanics and identify environmental and genetic factors affecting them.Subjects of the population-based Cameron County Hispanic Cohort (CCHC; n = 217) were screened by vibration-controlled transient elastography (FibroScan). Among them, 144 (66.7%) had steatosis and 28 (13.0%) had liver fibrosis. The gut microbiome of subjects with liver fibrosis was enriched with immunogenic commensals (e.g., Prevotella copri, Holdemanella, Clostridiaceae 1) and depleted of Bacteroides caccae, Parabacteroides distasonis, Enterobacter, and Marinifilaceae. The liver fibrosis-associated metagenome was characterized by changes in the urea cycle, L-citrulline biosynthesis and creatinine degradation pathways, and altered synthesis of B vitamins and lipoic acid. These metagenomic changes strongly correlated with the depletion of Parabacteroides distasonis and enrichment of Prevotella and Holdemanella. Liver fibrosis was also associated with depletion of bacterial pathways related to L-fucose biosynthesis. Alcohol consumption, even moderate, was associated with high Prevotella abundance. The single-nucleotide polymorphisms rs3769502 and rs7573751 in the NCK adaptor protein 2 (NCK2) gene positively associated with high Prevotella abundance.Hispanics with liver fibrosis display microbiome profiles and associated functional changes that may promote oxidative stress and a proinflammatory environment. These microbiome signatures, together with NCK2 polymorphisms, may have utility in risk modeling and disease prevention in this high-risk population.© 2021 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.
Schwann cell precursors (SCPs) migrate with peripheral sensory axons from DRGs to target regions. SCP migration involves adhesions to substrata to stabilize advancing cell margins, and contractile forces that pull a SCP forward and break rear adhesions. Ncadherin on axons provides adhesion for SCPs, and ephrin-A2 signaling from axons stimulates SCP contractions to complete SCP translocation. Modulation of these adhesive and contractile forces regulates SCP migratioin during development of peripheral nerves.
A woman, in her mid-50s, presented with headache, confusion, and unstable gait due to a large right parietal mass subsequently diagnosed histologically as glioblastoma, IDH-wildtype, CNS WHO Grade 4 with an unmethylated MGMT promoter. Next-generation sequencing revealed a rare gene fusion involving myocyte enhancer factor 2D and neurotrophic receptor tyrosine kinase 1 (MEF2D-NTRK1), informing our therapeutic approach. The patient was treated with temozolomide concurrently with radiotherapy, followed by tumor treating fields with adjuvant temozolomide. This report examines the distinctive molecular profile of this patient's glioblastoma, including the remarkable MEF2D-NTRK1 gene fusion, and the treatment options pursued to mitigate disease progression and optimize quality of life. Here, we will discuss the potential for resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibition and the efficacy of first- and second-generation tyrosine kinase inhibitors in relation to this inhibition. Various tyrosine kinase inhibitors, including entrectinib, larotrectinib, repotrectinib, and selitrectinib, along with bevacizumab, were considered to potentially prolong progression-free survival and overall survival and improve quality of life. We expect to highlight the rarity of this case while discussing the effectiveness of second-generation tyrosine kinase inhibitors in high-grade glioblastomas with rare gene fusions. We also hope to identify the appropriate timeline and treatment sequence for post-standard care, given the lack of official guidelines regarding cases this infrequent.Copyright © 2026 Dewey, Baranda, Zhang, Haeri, Milligan and Tuncer.
Identifying oncogenic driver mutations in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and colorectal cancer (CRC) is critical for targeted therapies, requiring accurate and timely molecular testing.To compare turnaround time (TAT; days from order to results), quantity not sufficient (QNS) rate, and detection rates of National Comprehensive Cancer Network-recommended alterations in NSCLC (epidermal growth factor receptor [EGFR]; MET proto-oncogene, receptor tyrosine kinase [MET] exon 14 skipping; ROS proto-oncogene 1, receptor tyrosine kinase [ROS1]; ALK receptor tyrosine kinase [ALK]; ret proto-oncogene [RET]; erb-b2 receptor tyrosine kinase 2 [ERBB2] mutations; neurotrophic receptor tyrosine kinase 1, 2, and 3 [NTRK1/2/3]; B-Raf proto-oncogene, serine/threonine kinase [BRAF]; KRAS proto-oncogene, GTPase [KRAS] [G12C]) and CRC (RET; ERBB2 amplification; NTRK1/2/3; BRAF; KRAS; NRAS proto-oncogene, GTPase [NRAS]; microsatellite instability) using 3 testing algorithms: in-house single-gene panel (SGP; 5 of 9 NSCLC, 4 of 7 CRC alterations); ThermoFisher Oncomine Focus Assay (OFA; covers all NSCLC, 6 of 7 CRC alterations); and send-out next-generation sequencing (SO-NGS; all National Comprehensive Cancer Network alterations).Three hundred fourteen tumors (181 NSCLC, 133 CRC) were tested with SGP, 377 (239 NSCLC, 138 CRC) with OFA, and 238 (185 NSCLC, 53 CRC) with SO-NGS.NSCLC TATs were 7.6 days (SGP), 11.1 days (OFA), and 11.9 days (SO-NGS). QNS rates were 10.4% (SGP), 6.3% (OFA), and 11.9% (SO-NGS). Detection rates were 19.8% (SGP), 26.8% (OFA), and 29.4% (SO-NGS). For CRC, TATs were 6.0 days (SGP), 10.1 days (OFA), and 10.2 days (SO-NGS). QNS rates were 0.8% (SGP), 0.7% (OFA), and 7.5% (SO-NGS). Detection rates were 62.9% (SGP), 58.4% (OFA), and 56.5% (SO-NGS).SGP provides the fastest TAT but lower detection and higher QNS rates in NSCLC. OFA balances TAT, QNS, and detection, whereas SO-NGS offers comprehensive detection with longer TAT and higher QNS. An optimized assay combining SGP's speed, OFA's reliability, and SO-NGS's comprehensiveness could improve outcomes.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 40874862
Neurotrophins and inflammatory mediators are known to influence endometrial function, but their interplay in luminal epithelial cells remains poorly characterized. In this study, sheep endometrial luminal epithelial cells (SELECs) were treated with nerve growth factor (NGF), lipopolysaccharide (LPS), or both, and the effects on gene expression and prostaglandin secretion were evaluated. NGF stimulation alone induced a clear transcriptional activation of NGF, neurotrophic receptor tyrosine kinase 1 (NTRK1), p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR), cyclooxygenase 2 (COX2), and steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (STAR). LPS treatment selectively increased Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), COX2, and insulin-like growth factor binding protein 6 (IGFBP6). Combined NGF and LPS treatment did not enhance the transcriptional response beyond that induced by NGF alone, except for STAR. However, co-treatment resulted in a modest increase in prostaglandin production, particularly prostaglandin F2α (PGF2α), but not prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), compared to single treatments, suggesting a possible post-transcriptional modulation rather than a transcriptional synergy. These findings indicate that NGF acts as the primary transcriptional driver in SELECs, while LPS contributes selectively and may enhance prostaglandin output. The observed increase in prostaglandin production may involve post-transcriptional mechanisms, although this remains to be confirmed.
Polydeoxyribonucleotide (PDRN) is a tissue regeneration substance that resembles human DNA and is present in mammalian cells. It stimulates physiological regeneration and metabolic activity, and the effects of PDRN are attributed to the activation of Adenosine A2A receptors (ADORA2A). Several previous studies have demonstrated that PDRN activates ADORA2A, which has been shown with various models including rat fibroblasts, human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs), and the experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU) model, resulting in the upregulation of angiogenesis and growth factor. In this work, we primarily used HUVECs to study the overall changes and dynamics of proteins related to their ADORA2A activation. We conducted selected reaction monitoring-mass spectrometry (SRM-MS), and we founded 374 proteins and 193 peptides demonstrating both upregulation and downregulation in expression. We conducted gene ontology (GO) analysis and physical network analysis and discovered novel networks and indirect interactions of proteins related to neuronal differentiation among the ADORA2A-associated protein. Finally, using the AlphaFold multimer, we were able to predict interaction sites among ADORA2A-associated proteins in the network associated with neuronal cell differentiation. Specifically, we predicted five interaction sites between ADORA2A and Neurotrophic Receptor Tyrosine Kinase 1 (NTRK1), forming the edge. Thus, we provided indicators for further research using ADORA2A present in a robust network and highlighted the potential of PDRN to impact neuronal differentiation.
Neonatal hypoxic-ischemic brain damage (HIBD) can cause short- and long-term neurological damage. MicroRNA (miR)-204-5p is closely associated with nerve injury caused by brain injury, but its mechanism in HIBD is not very clear.The neonatal rat's HIBD model was constructed by the modified Rice-Vannucci method, and the expression of miR-204-5p was detected. After overexpression or knockdown of miR-204-5p and application of Wnt2 activator HLY78, the histopathological changes and neuronal degeneration in the hippocampal CA1 region were observed with pathological staining. The neurological function was assessed with a diving platform test and elevated plus-maze test. Nerve regeneration-related protein and Wnt2/Ephrin-A2 (Eph receptor-interacting proteins)/EphA7 (erythropoi-etin-producing hepatomocellular receptor) signaling pathway protein levels were detected by immunohistochemistry and western blot, respectively.miR-204-5p was highly expressed in HIBD. When miR-204-5p was knocked down, the morphology of nerve cells and Nissl bodies was notably improved, Fluoro-Jade C and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling-positive cells number was significantly reduced. The levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and growth-associated protein 43 were significantly increased, and the behavioral indicators of the diving platform and elevated plus-maze test were significantly alleviated. The nerve injury was repaired, and the Wnt2/Ephrin-A2/EphA7 signaling pathway protein was notably elevated. The overexpressed miR-204-5p aggravated the nerve injury in HIBD rats. After the application of HLY78, the neuropathological damage of HIBD rats was further repaired, and the nerve regeneration and function were also significantly improved.Knockdown of miR-204-5p can improve HIBD in neonatal rats by activating the Wnt2/Ephrin-A2/EphA7 signaling pathway to encourage nerve regeneration and functional recovery.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) is a tumor which resembles skeletal muscle. Current treatments are limited to surgery and non-targeted chemotherapy, highlighting the need for alternative therapies. Differentiation therapy uses molecules that act to shift the tumor cells' phenotype from proliferating to differentiated, which in the case of skeletal muscle includes exit from the cell cycle and potentially fusion into myofibers. We previously identified EphA7 expressed on terminally differentiated myocytes as a potent driver of skeletal muscle differentiation: stimulation of ephrin-A5-expressing myoblasts with EphA7 causes them to undergo rapid, collective differentiation. We therefore tested EphA7 as a candidate molecule for differentiation therapy on human RMS (hRMS) cell lines. Surprisingly, EphA7 had a lesser effect than ephrin-A5, a difference explained by the divergent suite of Ephs and ephrins expressed by hRMS. We show that in hRMS ephrin-A5 binds and signals to EphA8 and EphA7 binds and signals to ephrin-A2, and that Fc chimeras of both molecules are potent inhibitors of hRMS proliferation. These results identify key differences between hRMS and normal muscle cells and support further research into Eph: ephrin signaling as potential differentiation therapies.© 2025. The Author(s).
Cedar virus (CedV), closely related to the Hendra and Nipah viruses, is a novel Henipavirus that was originally isolated from flying foxes in Australia in 2012. Although its glycoprotein G exhibits relatively low sequence similarity with its counterparts of the Hendra and Nipah viruses, CedV also uses ephrin receptors, i.e., ephrins B1, B2, A2 and A5, to enters human cells. Nevertheless, the entry mechanism of CedV into bat cells remains unexplored. Considering that Rousettus aegyptiacus (Egyptian Rousette bat, ERB) is postulated to be a reservoir host for henipaviruses, we aim to reveal the receptors utilized by CedV to enable its entry into ERB cells. To this end, we cloned the class A and B ephrins of ERB and generated CHO-K1 cells stably expressing individual ephrins. We also developed a lentivirus-based pseudovirus system containing the firefly luciferase reporter. Assessment of the luciferase activity in cells expressing single ephrins demonstrated that the ERB ephrin B1 and B2 mediated CedV pseudovirus entry. Further, we generated a recombinant CedV expressing the fluorescent protein TurboFP635 (rCedV-nTurbo635). By performing high-content microscopy and flow cytometry, we unveiled that, in addition to ephrin B1 and B2, ephrin A5 was also able to mediate rCedV-nTurbo635 entry, although to a much lesser extent. In contrast to human ephrin A2, ERB ephrin A2 failed to mediate rCedV-nTurbo635 entry. Finally, we generated ERB epithelial cells with ephrin B1 and/or ephrin B2 knockdown (KD). The entry of rCedV-nTurbo635 into ERB epithelial cells was drastically impaired by ephrin B1/B2 KD, validating the importance of ephrin B1 and B2 in its entry. Altogether, we conclude that CedV primarily employs ERB ephrin B1, B2 and, possibly, A5 for its entry into ERB cells.
Over hundreds of years, breeders have selectively bred different strains of canaries for plumage and song characteristics. One strain, the Belgian Waterslager canary, has been bred for loud, low frequency song and coincidently has been found to have a high-frequency hearing loss due to damaged and missing hair cells in the basilar papilla. Here, we investigated the possible genetic basis for this hearing loss in the Belgian Waterslager canary by conducting whole-genome Illumina (San Diego, CA) sequencing in three canary strains. We identified a total of 16 Belgian Waterslager male-specific "high-impact" single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) variants with three mutations occurring within genes previously identified in mammalian hair cell abnormalities and hearing loss disorders: pericentriolar material 1 (PCM1), p21 (RAC1) activated kinase 3 (PAK3)-like, and protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type K (PTPRK). Interestingly, we also identified three male-specific "high-impact" SNP variants in one of our control strains: the American Singer canary. One of these mutations occurs within genes previously associated with hearing loss in mammals. Since songbirds rely on hearing to develop a normal vocal repertoire, investigating the role of these genes in hearing loss at the molecular level may provide a valuable animal model for examining the relationship between hearing loss and vocal development in humans.© 2025 Acoustical Society of America.
This paper constructed a reactive oxygen species(ROS)-responsive hydrogel loaded with sodium tanshinone Ⅱ_A sulfonate(STS) and salvianolic acid B(SAB) and evaluated its therapeutic effect on hypertrophic scars. A hydrogel was prepared by using hyaluronic acid(HA) and polyvinyl alcohol(PVA) bridged by phenylboronic acid(PBA) as the matrix with two drugs physically encapsulated inside. Its structure, rheological properties, and drug release behavior were characterized. Scar models of rabbit ears were established and divided into a blank control group, a model group, an asiaticoside cream group, a regular drug-loaded hydrogel group, and a drug-loaded ROS-responsive hydrogel group. After 21 days of intervention, the net increased thickness of the car was detected. The tissue morphology was detected by using hematoxylin-eosin and Masson staining. The expressions of α-smooth muscle actin(α-SMA) and collagen-Ⅰ(COL-Ⅰ) were detected by immunohistochemistry, and the levels of transforming growth factor-β1(TGF-β1), tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1(TIMP-1), matrix metallopeptidase-9(MMP-9), ROS, and 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine(8-OHdG) were assessed. The results show that, compared to those in the model group, the net increased thickness of scar, TGF-β1, TIMP-1, ROS, 8-OHdG, α-SMA, and COL-Ⅰ in each treatment group were significantly reduced(P&lt;0.05), while MMP-9 levels were increased(P&lt;0.05), and the improvement effect in the drug-loaded ROS-responsive hydrogel group was better than that in the regular drug-loaded hydrogel group(P&lt;0.05). These findings indicate that the hydrogel can achieve smart drug release and significantly inhibit scar formation, providing a new strategy for treatment.
Based on a strategy integrating topological feature identification and path priority assessment, this study systematically explored the efficacy targets and differentiated mechanisms of Colquhounia Root Tablets(CRT) in the &quot;homotherapy for heteropathy&quot; of rheumatoid arthritis(RA) and diabetic kidney disease(DKD). Firstly, candidate targets of CRT and disease-specific genes were retrieved by integrating multi-source databases and transcriptomic data. Protein-protein interaction(PPI) networks were constructed to identify key targets shared by or specific to RA and DKD via topological feature identification. Subsequently, a path priority assessment was introduced to calculate the average shortest path(ASP) values from drug targets to various pathological segments, thereby quantifying intervention efficacy to lock onto &quot;dominant pharmacodynamic links&quot;. The predicted key functional axes were validated through animal experiments. The results indicated that the core targets of CRT for both diseases involved shared pathways such as phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase(PI3K)-protein kinase B(Akt), tumor necrosis factor(TNF), and glycolysis/gluconeogenesis. Notably, path priority assessment revealed distinct dominant intervention links: for RA, CRT preferentially targeted &quot;fibroblast-like synoviocyte(FLS) activation and invasion&quot;(ASP=2.361), which mapped to the TNF-p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase(p38)-LIM domain kinase 1(LIMK1)-Cofilin1 axis to regulate cytoskeleton remodeling; for DKD, the dominant link was &quot;filtration barrier injury and interstitial fibrosis&quot;(ASP=2.295), converging on the TNF-poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1(PARP1)-signal transducer and activator of transcription 1(STAT1)-matrix metallopeptidase 9(MMP9) axis to mediate cellular senescence and senescence-associated secretory phenotype(SASP) secretion. Animal experiments confirmed that CRT significantly alleviated RA synovial invasion and DKD renal fibrosis by inhibiting these two differentiated signaling axes, respectively. By employing topological feature identification and path priority assessment, this study elucidates the scientific connotation of &quot;homotherapy for heteropathy&quot; of RA and DKD with CRT through both shared network regulation and intervention in disease-specific differential signaling axes associated with pharmacodynamic links.
Oxidative stress and inflammation are closely associated with ocular surface disorders, including dry eye disease (DED), keratitis, and corneal erosion. These pathological processes contribute to an imbalance in tear composition and induce structural and functional alterations of the cornea. In this context, natural compounds with antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities have emerged as promising strategies for preserving ocular health and mitigating the effects of corneal injuries. In the present study, we investigated the potential protective effects of troxerutin (TX), a naturally occurring flavonoid, in attenuating oxidative stress and promoting the restoration of corneal tissue architecture.To this end, an H2O2-induced oxidative stress model was established using human corneal epithelial cells (HCE) SkinEthic™ 3D tissues. Cells were pretreated with TX and, after 24 hours, stimulated with H2O2 for 10 minutes.TX showed a protective effect against oxidative injury in the HCE 3D model and supported morphological recovery consistent with re-epithelialization through the upregulation of tight junction proteins zona occludens-1 (ZO-1) and Occludin. In addition, TX helped attenuate inflammatory responses by regulating interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-8 (IL-8), matrix metallopeptidase 9 (MMP-9), and key adhesion molecules, including intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and P-selectin.Overall, these findings emphasize the potential of TX as a natural compound that may contribute to the prevention and management of corneal damage.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
The gut mycobiome plays an essential role in human health, yet its influence on the progression of arterial stiffness, a key feature of vascular aging, remains obscure. In this study, we aimed to investigate the involvement of intestinal fungi in the exacerbation of arterial stiffness. In total, 763 participants were invited for the brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity test to determine their status of arterial stiffness. The gut mycobiome was identified through internal transcribed spacer sequencing, host genetics were determined by genotyping arrays, and plasma metabolites were quantified using untargeted liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. A less clustered but more communicative fungal community was found in individuals with elevated stiffness. Five driving fungal genera contributing to the shift of fungal interaction networks from normal to elevated stiffness, including Apiotrichum, Mycothermus, Flavocillium, Hyaloscypha, and Microscypha, were associated with arterial stiffness. Integrative analysis with metabolomics further demonstrated that organic acids, fatty acyls, and alkaloids mediated the effect of Apiotrichum, Mycothermus, and Microscypha on arterial stiffness. Moreover, alpha-1A adrenergic receptor, alpha-2B adrenergic receptor, cytochrome P450 Family 11 subfamily B member 2, angiotensin I converting enzyme, angiotensin II receptor type 1, matrix metallopeptidase 2, tumor necrosis factor, and rho-associated coiled-coil containing protein kinase 2 were identified as the key molecular transducers associated with increased Apiotrichum in arterial stiffness. Our study uncovers a strong association between disruption in gut fungi and the progression of elevated arterial stiffness, and highlights the potential of targeting the gut mycobiome for improving vascular health.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Rosacea, a chronic inflammatory skin disorder, severely impairs patients' quality of life and imposes substantial medical burdens. Existing treatments are hampered by unsatisfactory therapeutic effects and high recurrence rates, driving urgent research into novel pathogenic mechanisms. As a common spice and cosmetic preservative, cinnamaldehyde's safety risks in rosacea patients remain poorly characterized. This study aimed to integrate network toxicology with in vitro cellular assays to clarify its pathogenic roles and molecular pathways, providing novel theoretical support for its adverse impacts on rosacea sufferers. First, we predicted the target genes of cinnamaldehyde using the PubChem, SwissTargetPrediction, SuperPred, and ChEMBL databases. Second, we obtained relevant targets for rosacea using the GeneCards and CTD databases and identified the intersection targets with toxic substances. Then, we constructed a protein-protein interaction network of the core toxic substance combination using the STRING database and performed Gene Ontology functional enrichment analysis and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analysis to predict possible mechanisms. Subsequently, molecular docking validation of the active ingredients with the main targets was performed using AutoDock Vina software. Finally, cinnamaldehyde was added to the rosacea-like cellular model in HaCaT cells to assess its effects and molecular mechanisms by Cell Counting Kit-8, reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Database screening revealed 43 overlapping targets between the 195 predicted targets of cinnamaldehyde and the 1889 disease-related targets for rosacea, which included notable proteins such as prostaglandin‑endoperoxide synthase 2 (cyclooxygenase‑2; PTGS2), matrix metallopeptidase 9 (MMP9), and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). Protein-protein interaction analysis identified PTGS2 as a pivotal hub protein, while Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analysis indicated that interleukin-17 signaling and lipid metabolism are vital mechanisms involved in rosacea. Molecular docking studies demonstrated strong binding affinities between cinnamaldehyde and the identified core targets. Furthermore, cell culture experiments confirmed that cinnamaldehyde exacerbates rosacea by upregulating the expression of PTGS2, MMP9, and EGFR, along with increasing the production of inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-8 and interleukin-1 beta. In summary, our findings elucidate the potential pathogenic mechanisms by which cinnamaldehyde may induce rosacea, highlighting the roles of the core targets PTGS2, MMP9, and EGFR in mediating inflammation. This research provides new scientific insights that could inform preventive strategies and therapeutic interventions aimed at managing the toxicity associated with rosacea.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
In ruminants, progesterone promotes uterine development to create a favourable environment for an embryo. However, the mechanisms by which progesterone regulates the function of the endometrial epithelial cells that line the uterus remain unclear. To investigate likely mechanisms, this study used different concentrations of progesterone to treat cells from a bovine endometrial epithelial cell (BEEC) line. The effect of the treatments was assessed by constructing mRNA expression profiles of the cells using RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq). Compared to the control cells (0 ng/mL progesterone), it was revealed that expression of the cytokine interleukin 6 (IL6) was upregulated (P < 0.05) with both the 10 ng/mL and 15 ng/mL progesterone treatment of the BEECs. There was decreased expression of the matrix metallopeptidase 9 (MMP9) enzyme (P < 0.05) and increased expression of the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) gene (P < 0.05) in the 5, 10, and 15 ng/mL progesterone treated BEECs. In total, 138, 132 and 385 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in the BEECs treated with 5, 10 and 15 ng/mL of progesterone respectively, with these genes mainly associated with leukotriene and oxytocin signalling pathways, cell surface receptor signalling and GnRH secretion, multicellular organism process regulation, and TNF-related signalling pathways. The study revealed that BEECs treated with 10 ng/mL progesterone had increased β-arrestin 1 gene (ARRB1) expression, which would inhibit the extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (Erk1/2) pathway, and reduce gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) secretion, thus potentially affecting follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinising hormone (LH) activity. A small interfering RNA (siRNA) approach was then employed to disrupt ARRB1 expression. The siRNA suppressed ARRB1 expression, promoted Erk1/2 expression, and increased GnRH secretion. In conclusion, progesterone induces concentration-dependent gene expression changes in BEECs, and inhibits GnRH secretion in BEECs through the ARRB1-Erk1/2 signalling pathway. These findings provide in-vitro mechanistic insights into the direct actions of progesterone on endometrial epithelial cells.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Exposure to mercury (Hg) is associated with neurological disorders. Polymorphisms in genes involved in the toxicokinetic and toxicodynamic of Hg may be associated with susceptibility to adverse neurological effects of Hg. This study examined the relationship between polymorphisms in TNF-α (rs1799964, rs1799724 and rs1800629), IL-6 (rs1800795) and MMP-2 (rs2285053) with Hg levels and neurological impact in the Munduruku indigenous population. A cross-sectional study was conducted in the Brazilian Amazon, analyzing 188 individuals for hair Hg levels, polymorphisms, and neurological alterations. Participants ranged in age from 0 to 72 years and the majority (50.8%) were male. The median Hg level was 6.9 µg/g (1.4-23.9 µg/g), with 97.4% of individuals having levels above the tolerable limit of ≥ 2.0 µg/g. A positive correlation was observed between fish consumption and higher Hg levels (p = 0.03). The genotypic frequencies of all polymorphisms were in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. Distal pinprick perception (p = 0.01) and foot mechanical detection threshold (p = 0.02) were positively associated with the TNF-α rs1799964, while toe amyotrophy was positively associated with the TNF-α rs1799724 polymorphism (p = 0.02). Distal thermal sensitivity abnormalities (p = 0.009) and distal pinprick perception (p = 0.034) were positively associated with the MMP-2 rs2285053 polymorphism. In conclusion, the TNF-α (rs1799964 and rs1799724) and MMP-2 (rs2285053) polymorphisms were associated with the neurotoxic effects of Hg in Brazilian indigenous populations. Integrating genetic analysis with environmental exposure monitoring can help to identify individuals who are more susceptible to selected neurological findings. This could improve public health strategies aimed at addressing the impact of Hg exposure, which has been dumped indiscriminately into the Amazon rivers due to illegal gold mining practices.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Neonatal sepsis can disrupt brain development through oxidative stress, blood-brain barrier (BBB) dysfunction, peripheral leukocyte infiltration, and white matter injury. N-acetylcysteine (NAC), a glutathione precursor with antioxidant and immunomodulatory properties, is a promising neuroprotective candidate, but its effects in neonatal sepsis-like brain injury remain incompletely defined. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether early NAC pretreatment, followed by continued treatment, was associated with protection in a neonatal LPS model and examine the principal mechanisms associated with its effects.In this study, neonatal C57BL/6J mice received lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 3 mg/kg, subcutaneously) on postnatal day (PND) 3 to model sepsis-like injury. NAC was administered intraperitoneally 2 h before LPS (200 mg/kg), followed by daily treatment (100 mg/kg/day) through PND14. Survival was monitored to PND21. Acute outcomes at PND4 included oxidative stress, glial/inflammatory markers, MPO-positive cell accumulation, apoptosis, and BBB-related injury. Longer-term outcomes included myelination, dentate gyrus proliferation, and behavior.NAC improved survival after neonatal LPS exposure, with exploratory sex-stratified analyses suggesting greater benefit in males. NAC partially restored cortical glutathione levels and reduced lipid peroxidation, indicating improved redox balance. Although it did not significantly alter galectin-3, GFAP, or NLRP3 at the time point examined, NAC reduced cortical MPO-positive cell burden and attenuated markers associated with neurovascular injury and BBB-associated pathology, including matrix metallopeptidase-9 expression and albumin extravasation. NAC also decreased apoptosis in selected brain regions and partly improved white matter-related outcomes, including oligodendrocyte precursor cell abundance, myelination, and early sensorimotor performance. However, long-term behavioral performance in the open field and novel object recognition tests was not significantly improved at PND60.Overall, early NAC pretreatment followed by continued treatment mitigated neonatal LPS-induced sepsis-like brain injury and improved survival, with protection associated with restoration of redox homeostasis and reduction of MPO-positive leukocyte and markers associated with neurovascular injury and BBB-associated pathology rather than broad suppression of measured inflammatory mediators. These findings are consistent with a potential role for a redox-neurovascular-leukocyte pathway in NAC-associated neuroprotection and support further evaluation of NAC in prevention-oriented experimental paradigms relevant to high-risk preterm populations.© 2026. The Author(s).
Blast-induced lung injury (BLI) is a life-threatening complication of explosive shock waves, yet its molecular mechanisms remain largely unclear. This study aimed to elucidate the key molecular mechanisms governing epithelial barrier integrity during BLI progression and define the core regulatory function of Transcription Factor EB (TFEB) and its downstream signaling axis in BLI pathogenesis. We also evaluated the therapeutic effect and underlying mechanism of the hydrogen sulfide (H2S)-releasing nanozyme (Pt@Pd-S), intending to offer novel targets and translational therapeutic strategies for BLI. Bioinformatic analysis of single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data revealed activation of adherens junction, tight junction, and multiple stress-related signaling pathways in epithelial cells. Transcription factor analysis identified TFEB as a pivotal regulator in these pathological processes. Functional experiments demonstrated that TFEB overexpression via lentiviral delivery significantly alleviated BLI, as evidenced by reduced pulmonary edema, inflammation, oxidative stress and improved barrier integrity. Insulin-like growth factor 2 receptor (IGF2R) was identified as a novel target of TFEB and participates in the protection against shock wave-induced epithelial barrier damage by regulating the release of matrix metallopeptidase 2 (MMP-2) and matrix metallopeptidase 9 (MMP-9). Furthermore, the Pt@Pd-S nanozyme promoted S-sulfhydration of TFEB at the Cys212 residue, thereby enhancing its transcriptional activity, upregulating autophagy, improving lysosomal function, and maintaining epithelial barrier integrity and mitigating lung injury through modulating the IGF2R/MMP-2/9 signaling pathway. Collectively, our findings uncover a previously unrecognized TFEB/IGF2R/MMP-2/9-autophagy and lysosomal axis in the pathogenesis of BLI and highlight the promise of engineered H2S-releasing nanozymes as a therapeutic strategy for pulmonary trauma.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Osteoporosis is characterized by increased bone fragility and elevated fracture risk, severely compromising patients' quality of life. This study aimed to investigate the therapeutic potential of isoorientin (Iso) against osteoporosis and elucidate its underlying mechanisms. Using a combination of in vitro approaches, we demonstrated that Iso effectively inhibited RANKL-induced osteoclast differentiation in RAW 264.7 cells and downregulated the expression of key osteoclastic markers-including matrix metallopeptidase 9 (MMP9), cathepsin K (CTSK), c-fos, and nuclear factor of activated T-cells 1 (NFATc1)-at both protein and mRNA levels. Iso also exhibited potent anti-inflammatory and antioxidant activities, reducing the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, TNF-α, IL-1β) and malondialdehyde (MDA) while enhancing superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity and glutathione (GSH) content. Mechanistically, Iso acts by suppressing the ROS/PPARγ/NF-κB signaling axis. In vitro, the anti-osteoclastogenic effect of Iso was attenuated by the PPARγ agonist, and either the PPARγ antagonist or the NF-κB inhibitor BAY 11-7082 alone effectively inhibited osteoclast differentiation. In an ovariectomy (OVX)-induced osteoporotic mouse model, Iso treatment significantly prevented bone loss, improved bone microarchitecture, and suppressed osteoclast activity. Notably, administration of the PPARγ antagonist GW9662 or the NF-κB inhibitor BAY 11-7082 alone also exerted clear bone-protective effects in vivo, further validating these two pathways as viable therapeutic targets for osteoporosis. In conclusion, isoorientin exerts anti-osteoporotic effects by inhibiting the ROS/PPARγ/NF-κB signaling pathway, with efficacy comparable to clinical drugs, offering a promising novel candidate for the management of osteoporosis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
EphA2 is a receptor tyrosine kinase that suppresses tumor growth when bound by its ligand ephrin-A1 (EA1), but promotes tumor progression in the absence of ligand. In hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells, EphA2 is proteolytically cleaved by membrane-type 1 matrix metalloproteinase (MT1-MMP), producing a C-terminal fragment (EphA2-CF) and an N-terminal fragment (EphA2-NF). The functional role of these cleavage fragments on HCC remains unclear. Herein, we investigated their roles in hepatocarcinogenesis and malignant progression. Western blotting and membrane biotinylation assays revealed that EphA2-CF was present in HCC cells co-expressing EphA2 and MT1-MMP. EphA2-CF-expressing cells were resistant to EA1-induced growth suppression, while MT1-MMP knockdown restored EA1 sensitivity. In Hep3B cells, stable EphA2-CF expression confirmed resistance to EA1-mediated inhibition of proliferation and survival. Mechanistically, EphA2-CF sustained oncogenic signaling through constitutive phosphorylation at EphA2-S897, while failing to induce Y588 phosphorylation after EA1 stimulation. Mutation of EphA2-S897 abolished EphA2-CF-driven proliferation and survival. Reverse-phase protein array identified activation of the EGFR-AKT axis and inactivation of GSK3β as key downstream events. Both pharmacological inhibition of EGFR or AKT, and activation of GSK3β suppressed EphA2-CF-driven proliferation. Furthermore, enforced expression of a constitutively active GSK3β mutant (S9A) markedly suppressed EphA2-CF-driven tumorigenesis in mice, genetically validating GSK3β inactivation as a critical effector of EphA2-CF oncogenic signaling. In addition, soluble EphA2-NF functioned as a decoy receptor for EA1, blocking its tumor-suppressive activity. These findings demonstrate that MT1-MMP-mediated EphA2 processing promotes HCC malignancy via dual mechanisms: EphA2-CF drives ligand-independent EGFR/AKT/GSK3β signaling, while EphA2-NF inhibits EA1-mediated tumor suppression.© 2026. The Author(s).
Ras p21 protein activator 1 (RASA1) is mainly located on cytoplasm and can regulate GTPase activity. The goal of this study was to analyze the association between pulmonary RASA1 expression and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and the potential mechanisms.COPD patients and age- and sex-matched control subjects were enrolled. In addition, cigarette smoke (CS) evoked-COPD model in mice and cigarette smoke extract (CSE)-exposed BEAS-2B cells were used.Pulmonary RASA1 expression was reduced compared with control subjects and gradually decreased in parallel with the severity of COPD patients. Correlative analysis found pulmonary RASA1 was positively associated with pulmonary function parameters and inversely correlated with inflammatory cytokines among COPD patients. RASA1 protein expression was downregulated in lung tissues of CS-evoked COPD mice and CSE-exposed BEAS-2B cells. RAS/PI3K/Akt signaling was activated in lung tissues of COPD patients and mice, as well as BEAS-2B cells after CSE treatment. There was a negative correlation between SYVN1 and RASA1 in lung tissues of COPD patients. Mechanistically, CSE exposure enhanced RASA1 proteasome degradation through elevating E3 ubiquitin ligase SYVN1. CS exposure facilitated inflammatory cytokines production via activating RAS/PI3K/Akt signaling. Genetic deletion of SYVN1 alleviated CSE-provoked inflammatory response via inhibiting RAS/PI3K/Akt signaling in BEAS-2B cells.These data revealed that E3 ubiquitin ligase SYVN1-provoked RASA1 proteasome degradation involves in inflammatory response through activating RAS/PI3K/Akt signaling in the process of COPD.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Erythropoietin-producing hepatocellular receptor A2 (EphA2) is overexpressed in various malignant tumors and represents a promising target for cancer-specific imaging and therapy. However, many therapeutics (as well as imaging probes) targeting overexpressed EphA2 are limited by efficacy and safety concerns. We aimed to develop and preclinically evaluate a novel single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) probe, [111In]In-DTPA-EphA2-57-1, based on a newly generated anti-EphA2 monoclonal antibody, EphA2-57-1. The antibody was conjugated with DTPA (p-SCN-Bn-DTPA) and radiolabeled with 111In, achieving a radiochemical purity of 97.3%. In vitro, in EphA2-expressing cells (EphA2-positive U87MG glioblastoma cells), [111In]In-DTPA-EphA2-57-1 demonstrated uptake and a high internalization fraction, reaching 74.9% at 24 h. Although DTPA conjugation reduced the apparent binding affinity compared with the native antibody, efficient receptor-mediated internalization contributed to sustained cellular retention. In vivo biodistribution studies in U87MG tumor-bearing mice revealed selective tumor accumulation (6.9-8.8%ID/g) and favorable tumor-to-blood and tumor-to-muscle ratios, which increased over time. Notably, the tumor-to-blood ratio reached 2.4 ± 0.8 and 3.4 ± 0.6 on Days 4 and 7, respectively, post-injection. Blocking with excess unlabeled antibody significantly reduced tumor uptake, confirming EphA2-specific targeting in vivo. SPECT enabled a clear and persistent visualization of EphA2-expressing tumors; however, a relatively high hepatic uptake was observed. [111In]In-DTPA-EphA2-57-1 exhibited lower blood retention and higher tumor contrast at earlier time points than did the previously reported probe [111In]In-BnDTPA-EphA2-230-1, reflecting improved imaging performance. These results indicate that [111In]In-DTPA-EphA2-57-1 is a promising SPECT probe for the noninvasive assessment of EphA2 expression. Additionally, the findings may inform future EphA2-targeted theranostic applications.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) and diabetic kidney disease (DKD) are major microvascular complications of diabetes that contribute substantially to visual disability and renal failure worldwide. Increasing evidence supports the concept of an "eye-kidney axis," whereby inflammatory and angiogenic dysregulation may drive parallel microvascular injury in the retina and kidney. The present systematic review aimed to synthesize current clinical evidence on the association between vitreous and serum cytokines and renal impairment in patients with DR.Following PRISMA guidelines, PubMed, Embase, and Web of Science were systematically searched (2005-2025). We included observational human studies investigating vitreous or serum cytokines in adult patients with clinically staged DR and their associations with renal function parameters, including estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) and albuminuria. Data on study characteristics, cytokine profiles, renal metrics, and major findings were extracted. Study quality was assessed using the modified Newcastle-Ottawa Scale. Due to heterogeneity in study design and outcomes, results were synthesized narratively.Seventeen eligible studies involving patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes were included. Key cytokines assessed included angiogenic factors (VEGF, PlGF, ANGPTL2/4) and inflammatory mediators (TNF-α, IL-6, IL-17A, MCP-1, sRAGE), measured predominantly using ELISA. Across studies, both vitreous and serum VEGF levels were consistently elevated in proliferative DR and showed significant associations with albuminuria and reduced eGFR. Pro-inflammatory cytokines including TNF-α, IL-17A, and progranulin correlated with DR severity and markers of DKD progression. Biomarkers such as s(P)RR, FABP4, and Ephrin-A1 also exhibited concordant trends with microvascular dysfunction in both organs. Overall, the compiled evidence indicates that inflammatory activation and aberrant angiogenesis are common molecular signatures linking retinal and renal microangiopathy.This systematic review supports the hypothesis that DR and DKD share overlapping inflammatory and angiogenic pathways, reflected by synchronized changes in vitreous and systemic cytokine levels. These findings highlight the potential of retinal-derived biomarkers for non-invasive risk stratification of DKD, and suggest therapeutic value in combined anti-inflammatory and anti-angiogenic strategies to protect eye-kidney microvascular integrity. High-quality longitudinal and mechanistic studies are warranted to further establish causality within the eye-kidney axis and translate biomarker-based surveillance into clinical practice.Copyright © 2026 Tang, Li and Jia.
Osteoporotic fractures are a major global health burden. To uncover potential targets for fracture prevention, we use a proteome-wide Mendelian randomization (MR) approach combined with colocalization. Here we show that nine circulating proteins associate with forearm fracture risk, including sclerostin and osteoprotegerin targeted by existing osteoporosis treatments, and three other known bone-related proteins, providing proof of concept for our MRpipeline. Notably, we identify ephrin-A1 as a novel protective factor against fractures, a membrane-linked protein partly released into circulation that binds its high-affinity receptor EphA2 on osteoblasts. Experimental models and genetic analyses indicate that ephrin-A1 increases bone mineral density, supporting a mechanism by which this pathway may mediate fracture protection. Spatial expression analysis with the innovative 3D DeepBone technique suggests ephrin-A1 on endothelial cells interacts with EphA2 on adjacent osteoblasts at the bone surface. These findings position ephrin-A1-EphA2 signalling as a therapeutic target to strengthen bone and reduce fracture risk.© 2026. The Author(s).
The role of the Eph/ephrin system is well recognized in various physiological and pathological processes, including acute inflammation and cancer. We previously discovered that the secondary bile acid lithocholic acid (LCA) is a competitive antagonist of Eph receptors. The utility of LCA as a pharmacological tool for investigating Eph/ephrin biology was hampered by its primary activity at the FXR and TGR5 receptors. A recent study of centenarians' gut microbiomes revealed that a rare bile acid closely related to LCA, isoallolithocholic acid (IALCA), exerts marked protective effects on the intestinal epithelium, but its specific molecular target was unidentified. Considering the well-documented involvement of EphA2 in regulating intestinal epithelial/endothelial permeability, we asked whether IALCA could act through this receptor. Molecular docking and dynamics simulations predicted that IALCA binds within the ephrin-A1-binding pocket of EphA2. Our findings were validated through wet experiments, and IALCA emerged as a selective EphA2 inhibitor, blocking ephrin-A1 binding with low-micromolar potency. In functional studies, IALCA inhibited ephrin-A1-induced EphA2 phosphorylation, cell retraction, and rounding, confirming its antagonistic activity. Moreover, IALCA showed no detectable activity at the classical bile-acid receptors FXR, PXR, LXRα, or TGR5, thereby potentially linking its cellular and phenotypic effects to modulation of the Eph-ephrin system. As a final step, we demonstrated that IALCA also provides an attractive template for synthesizing new Eph antagonists. Overall, this work underscores the potential of the human gut microbiome as a reservoir of privileged chemical scaffolds for both fundamental pharmacology and therapeutic drug development.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified dozens of genetic loci linked with metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD).To identify liver-expressed genes that may represent therapeutic candidates for MASLD.We conducted a new GWAS meta-analysis including 16 532 cases and 1 240 188 controls. We also generated RNA sequencing data of liver samples and genome-wide genotyping of 504 individuals of the Quebec Obesity Biobank.Using mendelian randomization (MR) and genetic colocalization, we confirm the implication of genes previously linked with MASLD and identified novel ones including AKNA (AT-hook transcription factor), EPHA2 (EPH receptor A2), CHEK2 (encoding checkpoint kinase 2), and PCCB (propionyl-CoA carboxylase subunit β). More specifically, we found a strong and positive effect of long noncoding (lnc)RNA TRIB1AL on MASLD. The lead genetic variant was not linked with expression levels of the nearby protein-coding gene TRIB1 (Tribbles pseudokinase 1). In UK Biobank participants with whole-exome sequencing data available, rare loss-of-function variants in TRIB1 were not associated with liver fat accumulation or plasma triglyceride levels, suggesting that the lncRNA TRIB1AL may carry cardiometabolic effects independently of TRIB1. Targeted- and phenome-wide MR also identified lower liver-expressed TRIB1AL as being associated with reduced liver fat accumulation, lower plasma lipoprotein-lipid levels, and decreased atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease risk.These results open the door to liver-targeted therapeutics silencing of the noncoding genome for the prevention and treatment of MASLD and cardiometabolic diseases.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society.
Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitors (PARPis) are an important therapy for high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC). However, PARPi resistance frequently emerges, necessitating previously unrecognized approaches to improve HGSOC responses. Here, we showed that the anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) inhibitor brigatinib enhances PARPi activity in HGSOC cells by disrupting an adaptive survival mechanism orchestrated by Fos-related antigen 1 (FRA1) in response to PARPi. This effect of brigatinib occurred through an ALK-independent pathway, wherein brigatinib induced a dual blockade of focal adhesion kinase (FAK) and EPH receptor A2 (EPHA2) tyrosine kinases, leading to the suppression of protein kinase B (Akt) and extracellular-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling accompanied by disruption of a phosphorylation event crucial for FRA1 protein stability. Moreover, in HGSOC patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models, brigatinib and PARPi combination therapy induced tumor regression and improved overall survival compared with PARPi alone, particularly in models with high FAK and EPHA2. These findings support dual targeting of FAK and EPHA2 as a strategy to achieve effective and durable PARPi responses and identify a promising biomarker-based combinatorial approach using brigatinib and PARPi for HGSOC, particularly the subset characterized by high FAK and EPHA2.
Traditional methods for studying protein-protein interactions often lack the resolution to quantitatively distinguish distinct oligomeric states, particularly for membrane proteins within their native lipid environments. To address this limitation, we developed SiMPull-POP (single-molecule pull-down polymeric nanodisc photobleaching), a single-molecule technique designed to quantify membrane protein oligomerization with high sensitivity and in a near-native context. The goal of SiMPull-POP is to enable precise, quantitative analysis of membrane protein assembly by preserving native lipid interactions using diisobutylene maleic acid (DIBMA) to form nanodiscs. Unlike ensemble methods such as co-immunoprecipitation or FRET, which average out heterogeneous populations, SiMPull-POP uses photobleaching to resolve monomeric, dimeric, and higher-order oligomeric states at the single-molecule level. We validated SiMPull-POP using several model systems. A truncated, single-pass transmembrane protein (Omp25) appeared primarily monomeric, while a membrane-tethered FKBP protein exhibited ligand-dependent dimerization upon addition of the AP ligand. Applying SiMPull-POP to EphA2, a receptor tyrosine kinase, we found it to be mostly monomeric in the absence of its ligand, Ephrin-A1, and shifting toward higher-order oligomers upon ligand binding. To explore factors influencing ligand-independent assembly, we modulated membrane cholesterol content. Reducing cholesterol induced spontaneous EphA2 oligomerization, indicating that cholesterol suppresses receptor self-association. Overall, SiMPull-POP offers significant advantages over conventional techniques by enabling quantitative, single-molecule resolution of membrane protein complexes in a native-like environment. This approach provides critical insights into how membrane properties and external stimuli regulate protein assembly, supporting broader efforts to understand membrane protein function in both normal and disease states. Key features • Precise determination of membrane protein stoichiometry (e.g., monomer, dimer, oligomer) by directly counting photobleaching steps, overcoming the averaging limitations of bulk assays. • By incorporating membrane proteins into DIBMA lipid particles (DIBMALPs), this preserves native lipid interactions, offering a more physiologically relevant context for studying protein assembly. • Sensitively detects ligand-induced or membrane property-driven changes in oligomerization, making it a powerful tool for investigating both constitutive and regulated protein interactions.©Copyright : © 2026 The Authors; This is an open access article under the CC BY license.
A recent study revealed that Perillaldehyde (PAE), a natural compound from Perilla frutescens, characterized by claimed neuroprotective, antiallergic, antinflammatory, antimicrobial, antitumor, gastroprotective and antidiabetic activities, acts as a ligand of the EphA2 receptor, modulating its signaling through the inhibition of ephrin-A1-EphA2 binding. In this study, we investigated the interaction between PAE and EphA2 with binding and functional assays. Our data demonstrate that PAE neither interferes with ephrin-A1-EphA2 interaction, nor significantly affects ephrin-A1-induced EphA2 activation. PAE is just one of many instances that teaches how difficult and challenging it is to identify natural compounds characterized by selectivity and specificity towards a molecular target.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Atherosclerosis (AS) is a major cause of cardiovascular diseases, with OX-LDL-induced VSMC dysfunction being a critical pathogenic driver of AS development. Saikosaponin D (SSD), a bioactive compound, shows therapeutic potential, but its mechanism in AS is unclear.An atherosclerotic cell model was established by treating hVSMCs with OX-LDL. Intracellular ROS was detected via a fluorescent probe, MDA content and SOD activity via biochemical kits. Inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, IL-8 and TNF-α) were quantified by ELISA. Lipid parameters (TG, LDL and HDL) were analysed biochemically, and intracellular lipid accumulation was assessed via Oil Red O staining. Autophagy (LC3B and p62) and senescence-related (p16 and p21) protein expression was detected by WB, with cellular senescence further assessed via SA-β-gal staining. SSD's potential targets were predicted via bioinformatics (CTD, SwissTargetPrediction and GeneCards). SSD-EPHB2 interaction was predicted by AutoDock Vina docking (visualised by PyMOL), and its stability was evaluated by using iMODS-based NMA. EPHB2's functional role was confirmed via its overexpression in hVSMCs.SSD significantly attenuated OX-LDL-induced oxidative stress, inflammation, lipid accumulation, autophagic flux impairment and cellular senescence in hVSMCs. Bioinformatics analysis pinpointed EPHB2 as a hub gene. Molecular studies confirmed that SSD directly binds to EPHB2 and downregulates its expression. Crucially, overexpressing EPHB2 abolished all the protective effects of SSD.SSD alleviates OX-LDL-induced hVSMC dysfunction by inhibiting EPHB2, highlighting the SSD-EPHB2 pathway as a potential therapeutic target for AS.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
BACKGROUND: Ephrin-A4 (EFNA4), a member of the ephrin ligand family, is known to be involved in the progression of various malignant neoplasms. Nonetheless, its specific functional implications in gastric cancer (GC) remain inadequately characterized. Therefore, this study aims to elucidate the underlying mechanisms by which EFNA4 influences GC. METHODS AND RESULTS: Initially, bioinformatics analyses revealed significantly elevated EFNA4 expression levels in gastric cancer tissues when compared with normal counterparts. Additionally, clinical assessments from a cohort of 93 GC patients demonstrated a correlation between EFNA4 expression and factors such as tumor size, AJCC stage, histological grade, and Ki-67 staining score. Furthermore, high levels of EFNA4 expression were associated with decreased overall survival, underscoring its potential as a prognostic biomarker. In vitro functional assays conducted in the human gastric cancer cell line AGS demonstrated that EFNA4 silencing markedly suppressed GC cell proliferation, invasion, and migration. Moreover, knockdown of EFNA4 impeded the process of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) through the modulation of the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. Treatment with 740Y-P, a PI3K activator, was observed to enhance the expression of PI3K/AKT-related proteins and reverse the inhibition of malignant behavior in gastric cancer cells caused by EFNA4 knockdown. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that EFNA4 may act as an upstream regulator of the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway and could play a role in promoting EMT during the progression of gastric cancer.
Breast cancer is a major contributor to cancer mortality in women, and progression, metastasis, and therapy resistance remain key clinical challenges. Ephrin-A3 (EFNA3) has been implicated in various cancers, but its role in breast cancer and underlying mechanisms remain unclear.To investigate the clinical significance, functional role, and underlying mechanisms of EFNA3 in breast cancer progression.EFNA3 expression was assessed in breast cancer tissues and cell lines using sequencing, GEPIA, immunohistochemistry, and western blot. Cell proliferation, apoptosis, migration, invasion, and autophagy were evaluated using standard functional assays, LC3 staining, TEM, and western blot. The xenograft model was established using BALB/c nude mice. The effect of EFNA3 knockdown was evaluated by measuring tumor volume, weight, and relevant biomarkers.EFNA3 was upregulated in breast cancer tissues and was associated with poor prognosis. Silencing EFNA3 inhibited cell proliferation and metastasis, and induced apoptosis and autophagy. Mechanistically, our data suggest that EFNA3 activates the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway, which is accompanied by reduced autophagy and enhanced tumor progression. Moreover, in a xenograft model, EFNA3 knockdown reduced tumor growth, enhanced autophagy, and inhibited the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway.Collectively, our findings suggest that EFNA3 may promote breast cancer progression, at least in part, by activating PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling and suppressing autophagy. EFNA3 may represent a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target, pending further clinical validation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The development of tendons in vertebrate limbs occurs through the precise regulation of genes and signaling pathways between the skeletal elements and the ectoderm. Although it is known that SCX is a crucial regulator of tendon development, the establishment and maintenance of the tenogenic regions remain unclear. This study explores the role of CEK8 (Ephrin-A4) in early tendon differentiation in the chicken limb and its interaction with WNT/β-catenin and TGF-β pathways during tendon blastema formation. Our results show that Cek8 expression mirrors Scx in the developing tendon blastema but is localized at the boundary of SCX-positive cells. Inhibiting CEK8 upregulates Scx and other tenogenic genes; however, the effects are not sustained, indicating that CEK8 initially suppresses but later supports tenogenic differentiation. Through functional assays using protein-soaked beads in the tendon blastema, we determined that WNT signaling initially upregulates but later inhibits Cek8 expression in a time-dependent manner. TGF-β signaling induces a wider Cek8 expression domain compared to Scx, while CEK8 is necessary for the effects of TGF-β to maintain Scx induction. Inhibiting CEK8 expands the β-catenin and SMAD2/3 regions, favoring a tenogenic phenotype. These results identify CEK8 as a regulator of tendon progenitor architecture, likely involved in establishing positional information, which functions in association with WNT and TGF-β to control tenogenic differentiation both spatially and temporally. Our study provides new insights into the morphogenetic signals and cell interactions that occur during chicken tendon development.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This study constructed a model of ulcerative colitis(UC) due to spleen deficiency with dampness retention by the method of internal and external factors + trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid(TNBS) and explored the therapeutic effect and mechanism of Atractylodis Macrocephalae Rhizoma stir-fried with Aurantii Fructus prepared by Menghe medical school on UC, aiming to provide a scientific basis for the rational application of this drug in clinical practice. The study was carried out with seven groups: blank, model, positive control, Atractylodis Macrocephalae Rhizoma, Atractylodis Macrocephalae Rhizoma stir-fried with bran, Atractylodis Macrocephalae Rhizoma + Aurantii Fructus, and Atractylodis Macrocephalae Rhizoma stir-fried with Aurantii Fructus. After successful modeling, the positive control group was treated with mesalazine at 0.2 g·kg~(-1), and the other groups with corresponding drugs at 1 g·kg~(-1) for 14 consecutive days. The disease activity index(DAI), colonic epithelial barrier permeability, and colonic pathological changes were evaluated. The protein levels of Claudin-1, Occludin, zonula occludens-1(ZO-1), EPH receptor B2(EPHB2), microtubule-associated protein light chain 3(LC3)-Ⅱ, and ring finger protein 186(RNF186), as well as the mRNA levels of Claudin-1, Occludin, ZO-1, RNF186, and EPHB2, were determined. In addition, the levels of inflammatory cytokines \[interleukin-1β(IL-1β), tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), interleukin-6(IL-6), and nitric oxide(NO)\] and the ubiquitination level of EPHB2 were measured. Compared with the blank group, the model group showed typical pathological changes of UC, significant increases in DAI score, colon epithelial barrier permeability, and levels of IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, and NO in the colon tissue, and significant decreases in the expression of Claudin-1, Occludin, ZO-1, EPHB2, and LC3-Ⅱ. Compared with the model group, Atractylodis Macrocephalae Rhizoma stir-fried with Aurantii Fructus prepared by Menghe medical school ameliorated the pathological characteristics of UC, decreased the DAI score, colon epithelial barrier permeability, and the levels of IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, and NO in the colon tissue, and increased the expression of RNF186, Claudin-1, Occludin, ZO-1, EPHB2, and LC3-Ⅱ and the ubiquitization level of EPHB2. In conclusion, Atractylodis Macrocephalae Rhizoma stir-fried with Aurantii Fructus prepared by Menghe medical school could treat UC due to spleen deficiency with dampness retention induced by the method of internal and external factors + TNBS in rats. Specifically, it can up-regulate the expression of RNF186 and modulate EPHB2 ubiquitination to activate intestinal autophagy, repair intestinal epithelial barrier, and relieve intestinal inflammatory damage.
Background Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the leading causes of cancer-related death worldwide. Lenvatinib is a common first-line treatment for advanced HCC. However, resistance to lenvatinib is the greatest challenge limiting its clinical application. Currently, the molecular mechanisms of resistance remain poorly understood. Methods The expression of DDX1 and Ephrin-A3 in lenvatinib-resistant HCC cells was identified via RNA-seq and Western blotting. Bioinformatic analyses were applied to explore its expression and prognostic role. The biological role of DDX1 was evaluated via CCK8, EdU, flow cytometry analyses and xenograft tumor model. The regulation between DDX1 and Ephrin-A3 was determined by mass spectrometry, coimmunoprecipitation, RNA Immunoprecipitation, and RNA stability assay. Results We successfully established lenvatinib-resistant HCC cells. The results of RNA-seq showed DDX1 and Ephrin-A3 were significantly increased in lenvatinib-resistant HCC cells compared to parental cell. The DDX1 expression in HCC tissues is positively associated with worse prognosis. DDX1 knockdown increased the sensitivity of cells to lenvatinib by inhibiting proliferation and promoting apoptosis in vitro and in vivo. Conversely, overexpression of DDX1 exhibited the opposite regulation. Moreover, DDX1 bound to Ephrin-A3 and regulated its expression levels. The effects of DDX1 overexpression on cell proliferation, apoptosis, and lenvatinib resistance were significantly blocked by Ephrin-A3 knockdown. Mechanistically, DDX1 promotes lenvatinib resistance in HCC by regulating Ephrin-A3 mRNA stability and activating the Wnt/β-catenin pathway. Conclusion: The increased DDX1 expression in HCC cells promotes lenvatinib resistance via regulating Ephrin-A3 mRNA stability and activating the Wnt/β-catenin pathway, indicating that targeting DDX1 may be an important strategy for overcoming lenvatinib resistance.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) is a rare, but highly aggressive endocrine malignancy with poor prognosis and limited treatment options. Identifying novel biomarkers and therapeutic targets is essential for improving patient outcomes. The present study aimed to systematically characterize ephrin-A3 (EFNA3) expression patterns, its prognostic and diagnostic value, and its functional role in ACC progression through multi-omics bioinformatics and in vitro validation. Transcriptomic, epigenetic and pharmacogenomic data were obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas, Genotype-Tissue Expression, Genomics of Drug Sensitivity in Cancer, Cancer Therapeutics Response Portal and MethSurv databases. Expression, survival, immune infiltration, methylation and drug sensitivity analyses were conducted using the R software and online tools (GEPIA2, CIBERSORT and cBioPortal). competitive endogenous RNA (ceRNA) networks were constructed based on microRNA (miRNA)/long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) predictions. Functional assays, including CCK-8, flow cytometry, Transwell assays were performed on the ACC cell lines, SW-13 and NCI-H295R, to validate EFNA3 function. EFNA3 was significantly upregulated in numerous types of cancer and associated with poor prognosis. In ACC, upregulated EFNA3 was associated with a poor prognosis [Overall survival (OS), hazard ratio (HR)=3.14, 95% CI, 1.49-7.81; disease-specific survival, HR=4.27, 95% CI, 1.70-10.72; progression-free interval, HR=6.24, 95% CI, 2.94-13.23; P<0.05] and diagnostic efficiency (area under the curve=0.829, 95% CI, 0.760-0.897). EFNA3-mutated cases had significantly worse OS in ACC specifically (OS, HR=2.97, 95% CI, 1.12-7.90, P=0.029; disease-free survival, HR=8.65, 95% CI, 2.14-34.93, P=0.002). β-catenin (CTNNB1) was among most frequently co-mutated genes ACC with EFNA3 (P=4.6×10-4). Genetic amplification and DNA methylation alterations were observed in the ACC cohort. EFNA3 expression negatively correlated with immune infiltration and positively correlated with several m6A/m5C regulators. ceRNA network analysis demonstrated key lncRNA-miRNA-EFNA3 axes. Drug sensitivity profiling indicated that EFNA3 expression was associated with statin and proteasome inhibitor responses. The co-expression of positively correlated gene enrichment results suggested that Wnt signaling pathway and β-catenin/T-cell factor complex may be involved in the progression of ACC mediated by EFNA3. Functionally, EFNA3 promoted ACC cell proliferation and migration in vitro. The present study demonstrated that EFNA3 acts as an oncogene in ACC and may contribute to tumor aggressiveness via β-catenin activation and glycolytic reprogramming, and thus may serve as a potential biomarker for prognosis, immunotherapy sensitivity and drug repurposing, particularly involving statins.Copyright: © 2025 Tai et al.
Pulmonary fibrosis (PF) is a severe lung disease characterized by the destruction of lung architecture resulting from chronic epithelial injury. The PF microenvironment induces PF-specific epithelial cells, such as aberrant basaloid cells (ABCs). However, limited experimental models capable of inducing and activating PF-specific epithelial cells hinder the understanding of their roles.To address the lack of experimental models, in this study, we developed an ex vivo murine lung-organoid model designed to induce and activate ABCs. The organoids were subjected to bleomycin (BLM) stimulation. Dose-dependent reductions in number and size, structural disorganization, and transcriptomic changes were assessed following stimulation. Single-cell RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq) analysis was performed to identify ABC subsets. Cell-cell interaction analysis was also conducted.Following BLM stimulation, the organoids displayed dose-dependent reductions in number and size, along with structural disorganization and transcriptomic changes that were similar to those observed in the in vivo murine fibrosis model. scRNA-seq analysis identified two ABC subsets: Krt5low Tp63low Krt17+ ABCs_1, found in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), and Krt5hi Tp63hi Krt17+ ABCs_2, which have been observed in cultured tissues from patients with IPF but not in traditional murine models. BLM stimulation led to the induction of transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β2) expression in ABCs. Cell-cell interaction analysis suggested that BLM-damaged type 2 alveolar epithelial cells (AT2s) enhanced their direct and indirect interactions with ABCs_2 via ephrin-A signaling. In line with this observation, stimulation experiments of BLM-damaged organoids revealed that Ephrin A4 induced ABC cell differentiation-related gene expression changes, whereas Ephrin A3 enhanced epithelial proliferation-related gene expression changes and suppressed fibroblast activation-related gene expression changes.The developed organoid model serves as a novel platform for studying the roles and responses of PF-specific ABCs. This model may contribute to advancing the understanding of PF pathogenesis and facilitate the development of ABC-targeted therapies.© 2025. The Author(s).
Gastric cancer (GC) is a major cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide, and is characterised by intricate molecular mechanisms. However, analysis of its molecular and clinical characteristics is complicated by its histological and etiological heterogeneity. Dysregulation of the PI3K-Akt signalling pathway is common in GC. In this study, we have identified the hub gene Ephrin A4 (EFNA4) in the PI3K-Akt pathway based on transcriptome data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases, and ETS Proto-Oncogene 1 (ETS1) was a gene related to EFNA4. Using publicly accessible datasets, we conducted bioinformatics analyses to evaluate the expression profiles, functional roles, and prognostic significance of EFNA4 and ETS1 and further explored their relationship in GC. Subsequently, consensus clustering was performed on 373 TCGA-STAD datasets based on the expression matrices of EFNA4 and ETS1 to assess their interconnections with relevant signalling cascades and immune system components. To address the challenges posed by tumour heterogeneity and reveal the expression patterns of EFNA4 and ETS1 in GC tissues, we performed reanalysis of single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data of GC samples. We constructed a tumour-based risk signature for GC based on EFNA4, ETS1, and marker genes of the tumour cell cluster. The prognostic value of the prognosis prediction model was verified using TCGA database to facilitate the clinical application of tumour cell features in GC prognosis. Our study reveals EFNA4 and ETS1 expression patterns in GC, implicating their roles in pathogenesis. An integrated EFNA4-ETS1 prognostic model improves GC risk stratification. Although EFNA4 has been shown to promote metastasis in liver cancer, the contradictory mechanism of its high expression and good prognosis in GC remains to be elucidated, which may involve its antagonistic effects with ETS1, and requires further exploration.© 2025. The Author(s).
Eph receptor B2 (EphB2) overexpression is associated with poor clinical outcomes in various tumors. EphB2 is involved in malignant tumor progression through the promotion of invasiveness and metastasis. Genetic and transcriptome analyses implicated that EphB2 is a therapeutic target for specific tumor types. A monoclonal antibody (mAb) is one of the essential therapeutic strategies for EphB2-positive tumors. We previously developed an anti-EphB2 mAb, Eb2Mab-12 (IgG1, kappa), by immunizing mice with EphB2-overexpressed glioblastoma. Eb2Mab-12 specifically reacted with the EphB2-overexpressed Chinese hamster ovary-K1 (CHO/EphB2) and some cancer cell lines in flow cytometry. In this study, we engineered Eb2Mab-12 into a mouse IgG2a type (Eb2Mab-12-mG2a) and a human IgG1-type (Eb2Mab-12-hG1) mAb. Eb2Mab-12-mG2a and Eb2Mab-12-hG1 retained the reactivity to EphB2-positive cells and exerted antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity and complement-dependent cytotoxicity in the presence of effector cells and complements, respectively. In CHO/EphB2, triple-negative breast cancer, and lung mesothelioma xenograft models, both Eb2Mab-12-mG2a and Eb2Mab-12-hG1 exhibited potent antitumor efficacy. These results indicated that Eb2Mab-12-derived mAbs could be applied to mAb-based therapy against EphB2-positive tumors.
The aim of this study is to elucidate the role of the arteriogenesis mechanism and its impact on the remodeling of choke vessels within the delayed multiterritory perforator flap (MPF) from the perspective of protein molecular mechanisms.Integument radiography and HE staining were used to conduct qualitative and quantitative evaluations of the microvascular morphology within the choke zones. A laser Doppler blood flow imager was used to assess blood perfusion. Immunohistochemistry was used to perform qualitative, semiquantitative, and localized analyses of the spatiotemporal dynamic expression of protein molecules involved in collateral artery growth within the choke zone at 1, 3, 5, and 7 days following delayed surgery and flap elevation.Radiographs of the perfused integuments revealed that true anastomoses emerged in choke zones 1 and 2 three days after the delayed surgery. HE staining findings showed that after flap delay surgery, both choke zones 1 and 2 underwent remodeling, characterized by increased arteriolar diameters and decreased microvessel density. The blood perfusion units in choke zones 1 and 2 were significantly higher on 1 day than at 4 hours after the delayed surgery (P<0.05). In choke zones 1 and 2, protein molecules associated with collateral artery remodeling-including TRPV4, VE-cadherin, eNOS, iNOS, ICAM-1, FAK, Ephrin B2, PLGF, CD163, MMP-9, MMP-2, and CX-37-exhibited significant increases after delayed surgery and/or flap elevation, compared with their preoperative expression levels (P<0.05).The spatiotemporal dynamic changes of protein molecules related to the remodeling of collateral arteries are closely related to the remodeling of choke vessels in choke zones 1 and 2 of delayed MPF with ligated perforators in the dynamic region, and the arteriogenesis mechanism may play an important role in the remodeling of these choke vessels.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Diabetic skin ulcers are a major cause of disability, yet effective treatments remain limited due to microvascular dysfunction. This study investigated the effects of a glycol chitosan-silk fibroin hydrogel loaded with Ephrin-B2 (GCS-SF-B2 Gel) on the healing of full-thickness skin wounds in a diabetic mouse model. We prepared the hydrogel by mixing glycol chitosan and silk fibroin solutions, followed by lyophilization and adsorption of Ephrin-B2. The GCS-SF-B2 Gel exhibited a porous structure with a swelling capacity of up to 1600% and a moisturizing duration of up to 12 h. In vitro assays demonstrated that the hydrogel significantly promoted the proliferation and migration of NIH 3T3 cells. In a diabetic mouse model with full-thickness skin defects, the GCS-SF-B2 Gel demonstrated superior therapeutic efficacy compared to control, evidenced by macroscopic healing, increased fibroblast accumulation, improved collagen deposition, and significant angiogenesis at the wound site. These findings suggest that GCS-SF-B2 Gel is a promising candidate for promoting the healing of refractory diabetic wounds.© 2026. The Author(s).
The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic highlights the importance of identifying high risk pathogens, defining the immunity gaps and developing preemptive vaccination strategies. Here, we establish a high-resolution surrogate virus neutralization test detecting neutralizing antibodies against multiple virus families simultaneously, demonstrating good concordance with traditional assays. Extensive serosurveillance of pre-pandemic sera from different continents reveals low prevalence human exposures to different beta-coronaviruses, and identifies individuals with prior exposure to ACE2-binding MERS-like viruses. Furthermore, COVID-19 vaccination induces significant cross-neutralizing antibodies against clade 1b, 1c, and 3 but not clade 1a sarbecoviruses. Similarly, MERS and Nipah convalescent sera neutralize cognate viruses but have limited cross-neutralization against other related merbecoviruses and henipaviruses that utilize DPP4 and ephrin B2 receptors. Finally, a cross-clade prime-and-boost vaccination strategy using antigenically distinct antigens could induce broadly neutralizing antibodies against related viruses beyond vaccine antigens, supporting broad-spectrum beta coronavirus vaccine development.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42197493 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42075770 is a review article
Ovarian cancer remains challenging to treat because of late diagnosis, heterogeneity, and poor response to existing therapies. Here, we present a streamlined and scalable extracellular vesicle (EV) engineering approach that enables efficient cargo packaging and enhances targeted cargo delivery to ovarian tumors in vivo. Systematic comparison of vesicle-anchoring domains identifies an optimized scaffold for loading bioluminescent cargo into EVs. We characterized EV production from five cell lines commonly used for biopharmaceutical manufacturing and selected and stably engineered ExpiCHO cells as a robust, large-scale source of engineered EVs (eEVs). To achieve molecular targeting, the transmembrane scaffold Δ688 PTGFRN is modified to display tissue-targeting ligand Ephrin-B2 (EB2) on the EV surface, exploiting its high-affinity interaction with the Eph receptor B4 (EphB4), which is overexpressed in advanced ovarian carcinoma. Following systemic administration, these eEVs carrying bioluminescent cargo preferentially accumulate in EphB4-positive cells in vivo and permit non-invasive, spatiotemporal tracking via cargo-mediated bioluminescence resonance energy transfer. In patient-derived xenograft models with differential EphB4 expression, Ephrin-B2-displaying eEVs show selective localization to EphB4-positive tumors and report intratumoral cargo distribution. This work establishes a translational strategy for large-scale eEV production, advancing EV-based delivery platforms for precision targeting of EphB4-expressing ovarian cancer.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cells generated using ephrin-B2, the natural ligand for ephrin type-B receptor 4 (EphB4), have demonstrated antitumor activity; however, their efficacy remains unvalidated. Therefore, we evaluated the dual-targeting antitumor ability of these cells and confirmed their efficacy against lung adenocarcinoma. First, we evaluated EphB4 and EphA2 expression in samples from 74 patients with lung adenocarcinoma using immunohistochemistry. Next, EphB4 CAR-T cells were generated via piggyBac-mediated gene transfer, and their phenotype was evaluated. Subsequently, we conducted an antigen stimulation assay to assess the bispecificity of the EphB4 CAR-T cells. Finally, the antitumor effects of EphB4 CAR-T cells on lung adenocarcinoma cell lines were assessed. EphB4 and EphA2 positivity in lung adenocarcinoma samples was 93% and 100%, respectively. EphB4 CAR-T cells were successfully generated with high CAR positivity and a high proportion of naïve/stem cell memory-like T cells. In the antigen stimulation assay, the cells responded in an antigen-specific manner after stimulation with both EphB4 and EphA2 proteins. In the co-culture experiment, EphB4 CAR-T cells significantly suppressed the growth of all four lung adenocarcinoma cell lines compared to mock-T cells. In vivo, mice treated with EphB4 CAR-T cells displayed a significantly lower tumor burden than those treated with either CD19 CAR-T cells or phosphate-buffered saline. Additionally, mice treated with EphB4 CAR-T cells survived significantly longer than those in the other groups. In conclusion, ligand-based EphB4 CAR-T cells are bispecific, targeting both EphB4 and EphA2. Furthermore, these cells exert significant antitumor effects against lung adenocarcinoma.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
The receptor tyrosine kinase EphB4 is frequently overexpressed in epithelial cancers, including prostate cancer (PCa). SUMOylation is a post-translational modification that influences protein interactions, localisation and stability. This study investigated how SUMOylation regulates EphB4 localisation, stability and function in PCa.EphB4 SUMOylation was analysed in PCa cell lines and its contribution to stability assessed using siRNA or chemical inhibition of SUMOylation. An EphB4 mutant protein (K616R) was expressed in PCa cells and proteasomal inhibition was used to assess its stability. Cell migration was measured using a scratch wound assay. Immunoprecipitation was used to determine if mutant EphB4 could be SUMOylated on other residues.EphB4 in PCa cells is constitutively modified by SUMO2/3 and acquires SUMO1 modification when stimulated with ephrin-B2 ligand. SUMOylation of K616 is critical for EphB4 stability. K616R EphB4 protein is degraded by the proteasome, and this is associated with reduced MYC protein and slower migration. Immunoprecipitation revealed that additional SUMOylated lysines may also contribute to EphB4 function.SUMOylation at K616 stabilises EphB4, promotes MYC signalling and PCa cell migration. These findings identify a novel mechanism regulating EphB4 and highlight SUMOylation as a potential target in EphB4-driven cancers.© 2026. The Author(s).
Neuropathic pain is a common chronic pain condition that severely impacts patients' quality of life. While Small proline-rich protein 1A (SPRR1A) is a well-known marker for axonal regeneration, its specific role and the underlying molecular mechanisms in neuropathic pain remain elusive. The present study demonstrates that SPRR1A is significantly increased in the spinal dorsal horn of spared nerve injury (SNI) mice, accompanied by ephrin-A5 downregulation, activation of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)/tropomyosin receptor kinase B (TrkB) pathway, and enhanced neuronal excitability. SPRR1A overexpression induces allodynia in naïve mice, whereas knockdown of SPRR1A alleviates hyperalgesia and reduces neuronal hyperactivity. Silencing SPRR1A restores ephrin-A5 expression and suppresses BDNF/TrkB activation. Co-immunoprecipitation confirms that SPRR1A interacts with ephrin-A5, while ephrin-A5 competitively binds TrkB to block BDNF-mediated signaling. Conversely, SPRR1A overexpression decreases ephrin-A5 level and facilitates BDNF/TrkB activation. Ephrin-A5 siRNA reverses the inhibitory effects of SPRR1A knockdown on TrkB signaling. Furthermore, intrathecal administration of recombinant ephrin-A5 significantly attenuates hyperalgesia in SNI mice. Together, these findings identify SPRR1A as a key mediator of neuropathic pain that promotes central sensitization by suppressing ephrin-A5, thereby enhancing BDNF/TrkB signaling in the spinal dorsal horn. Targeting the SPRR1A-ephrin-A5-BDNF/TrkB axis may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for neuropathic pain management.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In vitro maturation (IVM) of oocytes remains suboptimal due to oxidative stress and disrupted cumulus-oocyte communication. Oocyte-derived factors (ODFs) are key mediators of this crosstalk and crucial for oocyte competence. Here, we provide systematic evidence that ephrin-A5 (EFNA5) is an oocyte-derived membrane ligand capable of regulating oocyte quality during IVM. Cross-species transcriptomic analysis revealed that EFNA5 is stably enriched in mammalian oocytes but markedly reduced in in vitro-matured oocytes compared with in vivo counterparts. Using the ovine IVM model, supplementation with recombinant EFNA5 significantly improved blastocyst formation, increased total cell numbers, and reduced apoptosis. Mechanistically, EFNA5 promoted cumulus-oocyte complex expansion, reduced reactive oxygen species accumulation, activated NRF2-dependent antioxidant signaling, and suppressed NF-κB-driven inflammation. RNA-seq and functional validation further confirmed that EFNA5 enhanced redox homeostasis and decreased DNA damage, collectively improving oocyte developmental potential. These findings establish EFNA5 as a novel and conserved ODF that alleviates oxidative and inflammatory stress to enhance oocyte quality and embryo development, providing mechanistic insight and a potential strategy for improving assisted reproductive technologies.
The function of the eye lens, to fine focus light from different distances onto the retina to form a clear image, relies on tissue biomechanical properties, refractive index, shape, and transparency. Increased lens stiffness with age, especially of the center or nucleus, has long been hypothesized to lead to presbyopia, a loss of accommodative ability, and the need for reading glasses. The cellular and molecular mechanisms that determine lens biomechanical properties and change during age-related stiffening remain unclear. Little is known about the factors that regulate lens shape and growth, nucleus size, and refractive index. We previously showed that loss of EphA2, a receptor tyrosine kinase, or ephrin-A5, a ligand for Eph receptors, leads to changes in lens shape and resilience in 2-month-old mice. Surprisingly, the loss of EphA2 led to smaller and softer lens nuclei with no change in lens stiffness.Using coverslip compression and X-ray phase tomography, we investigated whether lens stiffness, resilience, morphometric changes, and gradient refractive index (GRIN) were altered in lenses from 4- and 8-month-old adult mice with disruption of Eph-ephrin signaling.Our data revealed no obvious changes in lens stiffness or resilience between control and ephrin-A5 knockout (KO or -/-) mice at 4 and 8 months of age. While there were no differences in lens resilience, EphA2-/- lenses were stiffer than control lenses from 8-month-old mice. At all ages, EphA2 and ephrin-A5 KO lenses were more spherical in shape, and EphA2-/- lens nuclei were smaller than controls. In 4- and 8-month-old mice, EphA2-/- lenses were small. Measurement of GRIN in control and KO lenses revealed that EphA2-/- lenses had decreased magnitudes of refractive index across the GRIN profile in all age groups.These results suggest that, at least in mouse lenses, the size of the lens and nucleus does not affect whole tissue stiffness with age. Our work indicates that Eph-ephrin signaling influences lens shape and normal adult whole lens growth while EphA2 is needed for nuclear size and appropriate GRIN.Copyright © 2025 Flowers, Wang, Hoshino, Uesugi, Yagi, Pierscionek and Cheng.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41200151 is a review article
Benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P) is recognized as a highly neurotoxic contaminant, however, the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. This study aimed to examine the alterations in erythropoietin-producing hepatocyte receptors (EphA4, EphA5) and their ligands (Ephrin A5) in the context of B[a]P-induced neurotoxicity, both in vivo and in vitro. A total of forty male mice were administered intraperitoneal injections of either a solvent (peanut oil) or a B[a]P solution (at doses of 0.5, 2, and 10 mg/kg) over a period of 60 days, once every other day. Following 30 exposures, the mice were subjected to exploratory behavioral assessments, transmission electron microscopy for hippocampal ultrastructural alterations, and western blotting to measure synapse-associated proteins (SYP, PSD95), as well as EphA4, EphA5, and Ephrin A5 proteins in the cerebral cortex. Parallel experiments were conducted using HT22 hippocampal neuronal cells. The results indicated that B[a]P treatment led to impairments in spatial cognitive function and spontaneous behavior, abnormal synaptic remodeling, and reduced SYP and PSD95 protein levels. Notably, compared to the control group, there was a marked increase in the protein levels of EphA4 and EphA5 in the cerebral cortex of mice following B[a]P treatment at mid and high doses, while Ephrin A5 protein level was significantly depressed at high dose. Additionally, in HT22 cells treated with B[a]P (0, 0.2, 2, and 20 μM) for 48 h, both cell viability and cell numbers exhibited a significant decline, accompanied by abnormal neuronal synaptic remodeling. In comparison to the control cells, EphA4 and EphA5 protein levels were significantly elevated in HT22 cells following B[a]P treatment, whereas Ephrin A5 protein levels were notably suppressed. These findings suggest that B[a]P may induce neurotoxicity through the disruption of synaptic remodeling via the EphA/EphrinA5 signaling pathway.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The 14 members of Eph receptor tyrosine kinases (RTK) bind to membrane-tethered ligand called ephrins and mediate cell contact signaling where the receptors and ligands engage in trans on adjacent cells. Previous studies reveal that some Eph and ephrin pairs are coexpressed on the same cells, including EphA3-ephrin-A3 and EphA4/ephrin-A5, can also interact with each other in cis. However, significant discrepancies persist as to the molecular basis and functional significance of the cis interactions, owning to the difficulties to directly interrogate the interactions. Here, we utilize time-resolved live cell fluorescence spectroscopy to demonstrate direct in cis interactions between EphA2 and ephrin-A1. Structure-guided mutagenesis mapped interactions to two salt bridges between the ligand- and receptor-binding domains of EphA2 and ephrin-A1. Interestingly, the same interface is shared with in trans interaction. Consequently, EphA2-ephrin-A1 interaction in cis competes with their interaction in trans, which leads to attenuation of EphA2 canonical signaling and inhibition of cell rounding when ligand is presented in trans. EphA2 and ephrin-A1 are widely coexpressed in many epithelial tissues, and dysregulation of their expression is known to contribute to tumor initiation and progression. The detailed molecular characterization of the mutually exclusive cis and trans interactions uncovers a new mechanism underpinning their unique roles in oncogenesis.
The structural composition of organs undergoes significant transformations during organogenesis, laying the foundation for their eventual functional architecture. In contrast, adult organs maintain structural homeostasis. However, the dynamics of organ structure during the organogenesis and homeostasis stages remain poorly understood. Here, we present a spatially resolved transcriptome atlas at single-cell resolution to explore the establishment and maintenance of kidney structure in mice. Our analysis reveals 40 migration-related cell-cell communication events during kidney organogenesis. Contrary to the traditional two-layer model (cortex and medulla), we demonstrate that the kidney develops a five-layer structure over time. Mechanistically, migration-related cell-cell communication drives this structural formation, with ephrin-A5 (Efna5) playing a key role in forming three distinct layers within the medulla. The spatial distribution of specific cell types and their gene expression patterns within these five layers likely enhances renal adaptation to hypoxic and hyperosmotic environments. Furthermore, Frizzled 4 receptor (Fzd4) is critical for the morphogenesis of the U-shaped loop of Henle (LoH). In the adult stage, when structural homeostasis prevails, only three migration-related ligand-receptor pairs are observed, and a stable four-layer structure is maintained due to the absence of progenitor cells. Overall, our findings illustrate the role of intercellular communication in driving the transition from structural establishment during organogenesis to stable maintenance in homeostasis. These insights provide new avenues for advancing organ regeneration strategies.© 2024 The Authors.
The Eph receptors and their ephrin ligands play important roles in cell communication and neuron development. Eph interacts with ephrin in a complex manner. Here, we found ephrin-B2 instead of well-recorded ephrin-A5 specifically recognize and activate EphB2 receptor in primary cortical neurons. Domain-swapping and N/Q mutagenesis results show that the ectodomain of EphB2 and its N-glycosylation sites are critical for the ephrin binding selectivity. The N265, N336, N428, and N482Q mutant EphB2 cannot distinguish ephrin-B2 from ephrin-A5. Furthermore, the N-glycosylation sites in EphB2 are evolutionarily conserved and the N-glycan-directed binding strategy is commonly used in other Eph family members. A gain-of-function EphB6 mutant restores its ephrin-B2 binding ability. Finally, EphB2 is robustly glycosylated in the mouse brain and N-glycosylation is required for EphB2 signaling-induced cell rounding and dendritic spine formation. Collectively, our findings provide a molecular basis to understand the exquisite Eph/ephrin interaction preferences.© 2025 The Authors.
Dengue is an arboviral disease causing severe illness in over 500,000 people each year. Currently, there is no way to constrain dengue in the clinic. Host kinase regulators of dengue virus (DENV) infection have the potential to be disrupted by existing therapeutics to prevent infection and/or disease progression.To evaluate kinase regulation of DENV infection, we performed kinase regression (KiR), a machine learning approach that predicts kinase regulators of infection using existing drug-target information and a small drug screen. We infected hepatocytes with DENV in vitro in the presence of a panel of 38 kinase inhibitors then quantified the effect of each inhibitor on infection rate. We employed elastic net regularization on these data to obtain predictions of which of 291 kinases are regulating DENV infection.Thirty-six kinases were predicted to have a functional role. Intriguingly, seven of the predicted kinases - EPH receptor A4 (EPHA4), EPH receptor B3 (EPHB3), EPH receptor B4 (EPHB4), erb-b2 receptor tyrosine kinase 2 (ERBB2), fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2), Insulin like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF1R), and ret proto-oncogene (RET) - belong to the receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) family, which are already therapeutic targets in the clinic. We demonstrate that predicted RTKs are expressed at higher levels in DENV infected cells. Knockdown of EPHB4, ERBB2, FGFR2, or IGF1R reduces DENV infection in hepatocytes. Finally, we observe differential temporal induction of ERBB2 and IGF1R following DENV infection, highlighting their unique roles in regulating DENV.Collectively, our findings underscore the significance of multiple RTKs in DENV infection and advocate further exploration of RTK-oriented interventions against dengue.Copyright © 2024 Bourgeois, Wei, Ho, Neal, Seferos, Tongogara, Mast, Aitchison and Kaushansky.
Although genome-wide association studies have identified the gene RNF186 encoding an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase as conferring susceptibility to ulcerative colitis, the exact function of this protein remains unclear. In the present study, we demonstrate an important role for RNF186 in macroautophagy/autophagy activation in colonic epithelial cells and intestinal homeostasis. Mechanistically, RNF186 acts as an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase for EPHB2 and regulates the ubiquitination of EPHB2. Upon stimulation by ligand EFNB1 (ephrin B1), EPHB2 is ubiquitinated by RNF186 at Lys892, and further recruits MAP1LC3B for autophagy. Compared to control mice, rnf186-/- and ephb2-/- mice have a more severe phenotype in the DSS-induced colitis model, which is due to a defect in autophagy in colon epithelial cells. More importantly, treatment with ephrin-B1-Fc recombinant protein effectively relieves DSS-induced mouse colitis, which suggests that ephrin-B1-Fc may be a potential therapy for human inflammatory bowel diseases.Abbreviations: ACTB: actin beta; ATG5: autophagy related 5; ATG16L1: autophagy related 16 like 1; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; Cas9: CRISPR associated protein 9; CD: Crohn disease; CQ: chloroquine; Csf2: colony stimulating factor 2; Cxcl1: c-x-c motif chemokine ligand 1; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; DSS: dextran sodium sulfate; EFNB1: ephrin B1; EPHB2: EPH receptor B2; EPHB3: EPH receptor B3; EPHB2K788R: lysine 788 mutated to arginine in EPHB2; EPHB2K892R: lysine 892 mutated to arginine in EPHB2; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; FITC: fluorescein isothiocyanate; GFP: green fluorescent protein; GWAS: genome-wide association studies; HRP: horseradish peroxidase; HSPA5/BiP: heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 5; IBD: inflammatory bowel diseases; Il1b: interleukin 1 beta; Il6: interleukin 6; IRGM:immunity related GTPase M; i.p.: intraperitoneally; IPP: inorganic pyrophosphatase; KD: knockdown; KO: knockout; MAP1LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; NOD2: nucleotide binding oligomerization domain containing 2; PI3K: phosphoinositide 3-kinase; PtdIns3K: class III phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase; RNF186: ring finger protein 186; RNF186A64T: alanine 64 mutated to threonine in RNF186; RNF186R179X: arginine 179 mutated to X in RNF186; RPS6: ribosomal protein S6; Tnf: tumor necrosis factor; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; Ub: ubiquitin; UBE2D2: ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 D2; UBE2H: ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 H; UBE2K: ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 K; UBE2N: ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 N; UC: ulcerative colitis; ULK1:unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; WT: wild type.
Background/Objectives: Eph receptor A5 (EphA5) is a receptor tyrosine kinase that is implicated in multiple malignancies, although its role in endometrial cancer (EC) remains unclear. The aim of this study was to investigate the clinicopathological significance of EphA5 expression in EC and explore its association with proliferative and metabolic markers. Methods: We retrospectively analyzed 75 EC tissue samples from treatment-naïve patients by using immunohistochemistry and H-score quantification. Associations between EphA5 expression and clinicopathological parameters were assessed through logistic regression analysis. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to evaluate survival outcomes. Correlation analysis, stratified according to cancer stage, was used to explore biomarker interactions. Results: High EphA5 expression levels were significantly associated with elevated Ki-67 expression (adjusted odds ratio (aOR): 1.08 per 1-point H-score increase, p = 0.024) and decreased pAMPK expression (aOR: 0.89 per 1-point H-score increase, p = 0.024), indicating its involvement in proliferative and metabolic pathways. Paradoxically, patients with high EphA5 levels had significantly better overall survival probabilities (H-score > 105, log-rank p = 0.007). Stage-specific analyses suggested that EphA5 levels correlated with proliferation in early-stage disease and epithelial-mesenchymal transition in advanced stages. Conclusions: EphA5 may act as a context-dependent biomarker in EC. Despite its positive correlation with proliferation and negative association with metabolic stress signaling, high EphA5 expression levels were predictive of a favorable prognosis.
Ovarian cancer is among the most lethal gynecologic malignancies, with a high proportion of patients diagnosed at advanced stages, leading to poor survival outcomes. Axillary lymph node metastasis from ovarian cancer is extremely rare and the mechanism is still unclear.A comprehensive set of clinical and gynecologic oncology assessments were performed, including ultrasound, mammography, MRI, transvaginal ultrasound, and tissue staining. To unravel the carcinogenesis, the next-generation sequencing (NGS) was performed.Conventional examinations and imaging suggested the presence of both occult breast cancer and ovarian cancer. However, immunohistochemical staining confirmed the diagnosis of high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma. Further analysis of NGS identified two novel missense mutations, D326E in BTK (Bruton's tyrosine kinase) at SH2 domain and D251E in EPHA5 (EPH receptor A5), along with other known cancer- associated mutations. These mutations, particularly the novel missense mutations, may lead to metastasis to the axillary lymph nodes and drug resistance. Therefore, based on these findings, the chemotherapy regimen was adjusted accordingly.This is the first report on the panorama gene profile of ovarian cancer metastasis to axillary lymph node and we found two novel mutations (BTK pD326E and EPHA5 pD251E). This study unraveled the potential mechanism of genetic mutation for tumor metabolism, drug resistance, and metastasis.Copyright © 2025 Xia, Huang, Liu, Song, Wang and Luo.
Immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) therapy has shown remarkable clinical benefit in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) patients. Genomic mutations may be applicable to predict the response to ICIs. Eph receptor A5 (EPHA5) is frequently mutated in breast cancer, lung cancer, and other tumors; however, its association with outcome in patients who receive immunotherapy remains unknown. In this study, we report that EPHA5 mutations were associated with increased tumor mutation burden (TMB), neoantigen load, levels of immune-related gene expression signatures, and enhanced tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in LUAD. LUAD patients with EPHA5 mutations in the immunotherapy cohort achieved a longer progression-free survival (PFS) time than patients with wild-type EPHA5. Immune response pathways were among the top enriched pathways in samples with EPHA5 mutations. In addition, patients with EPHA5 mutations tended to be more sensitive to certain targeted molecular inhibitors, including serdemetan, lox2, and PF1-1. Collectively, our results suggest that identifying mutations in the EPHA5 gene may provide insight into the genome-wide mutational burden and may serve as a biomarker to predict the immune response of patients with LUAD.© 2020. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a leading cause of cancer-related mortality, yet conventional chemotherapy is limited by poor tumor specificity and severe toxicity. Cantharidin (CTD), a natural antitumor agent, is hindered by nephrotoxicity and hepatotoxicity. This study aimed to construct a dual-ligand-modified CTD-loaded solid lipid nanoparticle (GA-FA-CSLNs) using 18-glycyrrhetinic acid (GA) for hepatocyte targeting and folate-PEG3500-DSPE (FA) for long circulation, and to evaluate its antitumor efficacy, mechanism, and safety. GA-FA-CSLNs were prepared by emulsification-ultrasonication and optimized via Box-Behnken design. The nanoparticles were characterized. In vitro antitumor activity was assessed in Huh-7 cells using CCK-8, flow cytometry, and Western blotting. In vivo efficacy and safety were evaluated in Huh-7 tumor-bearing nude mice, and pharmacokinetics in SD rats. GA-FA-CSLNs exhibited favorable physicochemical properties. In vitro studies showed enhanced cellular uptake, the lowest IC50, and 43.2% apoptosis in Huh-7 cells. Mechanistically, GA-FA-CSLNs downregulated Eph receptor B4(EphB4) and Bcl-2, while upregulating caspase-3 and Bax. In vivo, the tumor inhibition rate reached 58.67%, superior to free CTD and sorafenib, with 100% 14-day survival and no significant abnormalities in serum biochemistry or histopathology. Pharmacokinetic analysis showed prolonged elimination half-life (2.54 h) and a 3.2-fold increase in area under the blood concentration-time curve versus unmodified CSLNs. GA-FA-CSLNs represent a promising actively targeted nanoplatform that enhances CTD antitumor efficacy against HCC via EphB4 pathway inhibition while reducing systemic toxicity, offering a potential strategy for targeted HCC therapy.
Capillary malformation-arteriovenous malformation (CM-AVM) is an inherited autosomal dominant vascular disorder associated with RAS p21 protein activator (RASA1) or EPH receptor B4 (EPHB4) mutations. We aimed to investigate the clinical features of eight Chinese families with CM-AVM and the genetic characteristics of EPHB4 or RASA1 gene variants.The clinical data of eight families with CM-AVM who were admitted to the Department of Dermatology, the Union Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical University from January 2022 to September 2023 were collected and analyzed. Whole-Exome Sequencing was used to detect the pathogenic gene in the probands, and Sanger sequencing was used to verify the gene mutation sites in family members. Homology modeling software was used to predict the three-dimensional structure of the protein and analyze the characteristics of gene mutations.Five EPHB4 gene variants and two RASA1 mutations were detected in eight patients. Five of these were novel variations: four EPHB4 (c.2197G>T, p.E733X; c.2451_2460delGGAGAGGCCG, p.E818Tfs*4; c.1899_1900insTTGGCGAGGTGTGTCGGGGGCGG, p.K635Afs*23; c.2018A>G, p.H673R) and one RASA1 (c.1848T>A, p.C616X). There were two missense mutations, two frameshift mutations and one non-sense mutation in EPHB4 mutation, and two non-sense mutations in RASA1 mutation.The clinical characteristics of CM-AVM include multifocal capillary malformations (CMs), telangiectasia, and arteriovenous malformation (AVM) or arteriovenous fistulas (AVF). The novel mutations could expand the spectrum of CM-AVM associated with EPHB4 or RASA1 mutations.Copyright © 2026 Lin, Dong, Zhu, Dong, Lin and Xiao.
Vascular extracellular matrix stiffening is an early and pervasive driver of pulmonary hypertension (PH), though its mechanistic links to pathological cellular responses remain unclear. This study identifies Eph receptor B4 (EphB4), a receptor tyrosine kinase, as a key mediator of stiffness-induced responses in pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells (PASMCs). EphB4 was significantly upregulated in PH, and its smooth muscle-specific deficiency alleviated PH in rats. Matrix stiffening promoted conformational extension of the EphB4 C-terminal intrinsically disordered region (IDR), inducing its liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS) into biomolecular condensates. These condensates sequestered Yes-associated protein (YAP)-regulating proteins, including ANXA2 and YWHA, disrupting YAP cytoplasmic retention and promoting its nuclear translocation to drive PASMC proliferation. Targeting the IDR of EphB4 with a retro-reversed peptide inhibited LLPS. Finally, delivering this peptide via VAPG-modified nanoparticles effectively attenuated PH progression. Our work establishes a novel EphB4-ANXA2/YWHA-YAP axis and highlights EphB4 phase separation as a promising therapeutic target for PH.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The ordered cytomembrane coating nanotechnologies have aroused increasing attention in various medical aspects, including drug screening. However, this ordered coating necessitates prior chemical or biological labeling of the cytomembrane, which threatens the preservation of the membrane protein bioactivity on nanoparticles and introduces nonspecific adsorption. This paper reports the facile development of a label-free osteoblast membrane reversely coated with magnetic hydrochar nanospheres (OMR@MHNs) via the self-assembly of concanavalin A (ConA)-bonded MHNs and OMs. The sucrose-derived MHNs were covalently functionalized with ConA via aqueous amidation with its residual amino groups. Without any additional modification on OMs, the ordered reverse OM coverage onto MHNs with full exposure of the inner surface was driven by the specific affinity interaction between the immobilized concanavalin and inherent extracellular saccharides of the osteoblast. This interaction also achieved improved OM capacity and biocomposite stability. Using bioactive OMR@MHNs as the extraction nanoplatform, four specific ingredients including two new potentially osteogenetic chemicals of diphylloside A and sagittatoside C targeting the inner surface of OMs were smoothly identified from Epimedium brevicornu Maxim, which were hardly discovered via normal OM disorderly bonded MHNs. As verified by cell, molecular docking, cellular thermal shift assay, Western blot, and zebrafish tests, diphylloside A and sagittatoside C showed significant antiosteoporotic actions with binding membrane proteins of EPH receptor B4 and fibroblast growth factor receptor 1. This research facilitated the facile label-free construction of ordered bioadsorbent and high-activity screening of natural drugs.
Sialic acid is a terminal monosaccharide of glycans in glycoproteins and glycolipids, and its derivation from glucose is regulated by the rate-limiting enzyme UDP-GlcNAc 2-epimerase/ManNAc kinase (GNE). Although the glycans on key endogenous hepatic proteins governing glucose metabolism are sialylated, how sialic acid synthesis and sialylation in the liver influence glucose homeostasis is unknown. Studies were designed to fill this knowledge gap.To decrease the production of sialic acid and sialylation in hepatocytes, a hepatocyte-specific GNE knockdown mouse model was generated, and systemic glucose metabolism, hepatic insulin signaling and glucagon signaling were evaluated in vivo or in primary hepatocytes. Peripheral insulin sensitivity was also assessed. Furthermore, the mechanisms by which sialylation in the liver influences hepatic insulin signaling and glucagon signaling and peripheral insulin sensitivity were identified.Liver GNE deletion in mice caused an impairment of insulin suppression of hepatic glucose production. This was due to a decrease in the sialylation of hepatic insulin receptors (IR) and a decline in IR abundance due to exaggerated degradation through the Eph receptor B4. Hepatic GNE deficiency also caused a blunting of hepatic glucagon receptor (GCGR) function which was related to a decline in its sialylation and affinity for glucagon. An accompanying upregulation of hepatic FGF21 production caused an enhancement of skeletal muscle glucose disposal that led to an overall increase in glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity.These collective observations reveal that hepatic sialic acid synthesis and sialylation modulate glucose homeostasis in both the liver and skeletal muscle. By interrogating how hepatic sialic acid synthesis influences glucose control mechanisms in the liver, a new metabolic cycle has been identified in which a key constituent of glycans generated from glucose modulates the systemic control of its precursor.Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
EphB4 angiogenic kinase over-expression in Mesothelioma cells relies upon a degradation rescue signal provided by autocrine IGF-II activation of Insulin Receptor A. However, the identity of the molecular machinery involved in EphB4 rapid degradation upon IGF-II signal deprivation are unknown. Using targeted proteomics, protein-protein interaction methods, PCR cloning, and 3D modeling approaches, we identified a novel ubiquitin E3 ligase complex recruited by the EphB4 C tail upon autocrine IGF-II signal deprivation. We show this complex to contain a previously unknown N-Terminal isoform of Deltex3 E3-Ub ligase (referred as "DTX3c"), along with UBA1(E1) and UBE2N(E2) ubiquitin ligases and the ATPase/unfoldase Cdc48/p97. Upon autocrine IGF-II neutralization in cultured MSTO211H (a Malignant Mesothelioma cell line that is highly responsive to the EphB4 degradation rescue IGF-II signal), the inter-molecular interactions between these factors were enhanced and their association with the EphB4 C-tail increased consistently with the previously described EphB4 degradation pattern. The ATPase/unfoldase activity of Cdc48/p97 was required for EphB4 recruitment. As compared to the previously known isoforms DTX3a and DTX3b, a 3D modeling analysis of the DTX3c Nt domain showed a unique 3D folding supporting isoform-specific biological function(s). We shed light on the molecular machinery associated with autocrine IGF-II regulation of oncogenic EphB4 kinase expression in a previously characterized IGF-II+/EphB4+ Mesothelioma cell line. The study provides early evidence for DTX3 Ub-E3 ligase involvement beyond the Notch signaling pathway.
Insulin signaling is essential for glucose metabolism, and insulin decreases insulin receptor (InsR) levels in a dose-dependent and time-dependent manner. However, the regulatory mechanisms of InsR reduction upon insulin stimulation remain poorly understood. Here, we show that Eph receptor B4 (EphB4), a tyrosine kinase receptor that modulates cell adhesion and migration, can bind directly to InsR, and this interaction is markedly enhanced by insulin. Due to the adaptor protein 2 (Ap2) complex binding motif in EphB4, the interaction of EphB4 and InsR facilitates clathrin-mediated InsR endocytosis and degradation in lysosomes. Hepatic overexpression of EphB4 decreases InsR and increases hepatic and systemic insulin resistance in chow-fed mice, whereas genetic or pharmacological inhibition of EphB4 improve insulin resistance and glucose intolerance in obese mice. These observations elucidate a role for EphB4 in insulin signaling, suggesting that EphB4 might represent a therapeutic target for the treatment of insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes.© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Arteriovenous fistula (AVF) is frequently believed to be the best vascular access for chronic renal failure (CRF) patients. Vascular endothelial cell dysfunction has been implicated in AVF maturation. Quercetin (Quer) is a natural polyphenolic compound widely used in traditional Chinese medicine. We aimed to uncover the impacts of Quer on vascular endothelial cells in a CRF rat model and human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) stimulated by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and serum from rat with CRF. Blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine levels were tested in CRF rat model after administration of Quer. H&E staining was used to estimate endothelial damage. Nitric oxide (NO), endothelial NO synthase (eNOS), EPH receptor B4 (EphB4), EphrinB2, and p-caveolin-1 (p-Cav-1) levels in the serum were examined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Western blot was employed to analyze the expressions of eNOS, phosphorylated (p)-eNOS, EphB4, and Cav-1 in arterial tissues and HUVECs. Cell counting kit-8 was applied for assessing cell proliferation. TUNEL (terminal-deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated nick end labeling) assay was employed to estimate cell apoptosis. Results showed that Quer ameliorated renal function impairment and endothelial injury in vivo. Meanwhile, Quer boosted the proliferation and suppressed the apoptosis of HUVECs stimulated by LPS and serum from rat with CRF. Additionally, Quer elevated NO and eNOS levels, upregulated p-eNOS expression but downregulated EphB4, EphrinB2, and p-Cav-1 expressions. Moreover, EphB4 inhibitor had the similar effect as Quer treatment in HUVECs stimulated by LPS and serum from rat with CRF. Collectively, Quer might effectively regulate vascular function to prevent AVF failure in CRF via modulation of Eph/Cav-1 signaling.© 2022 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) is a member of the chemokine receptor family, exclusively activated by the chemokine CXCL12. While CXCR4 regulates numerous physiological processes associated with cell migration and embryogenesis, its overexpression has been involved in various cancer types. Studies suggest that intracellular CXCR4 rather than CXCL12-induced signaling at the plasma membrane contributes to its pro-tumorigenic functions. Given the role of GPCR-interacting proteins in their trafficking and subcellular localization, we characterized the CXCR4 interactome using an affinity purification coupled to mass spectrometry (AP-MS) strategy. The most abundant protein identified in the CXCR4 interactome is Ephrin B1, a member of the Ephrin protein family that shares several functions with CXCR4, such as the regulation of cell migration and proliferation. Further studies showed that the interaction between CXCR4 and Ephrin B1 is direct and enhanced upon CXCR4 activation by CXCL12. They also indicated that Ephrin B1 prevents CXCR4 N-glycosylation, decreases CXCR4 cell surface expression, and consistently inhibits CXCL12-induced CXCR4 coupling to Gαi1-3 and recruitment of β-arrestins 1 and 2. Conversely, Ephrin B1 signals to Erk1/2 through CXCR4 activation and mediates the decrease in Death Receptor 5 expression elicited by intracellular CXCR4. Collectively, these findings identify Ephrin B1 as a potential regulator of CXCR4-driven tumorigenic signaling.© 2026. The Author(s).
Erythropoietin-producing hepatocellular carcinoma (Eph) receptor A4 (EphA4) binds to a broad range of ephrin ligands and is upregulated in various tumors. EphA4 activation plays crucial roles in the maintenance of cancer invasiveness, immune evasion, and stem cell properties. Furthermore, a novel EphA4 ligand, secretory ribonuclease 1, has been identified, and its interaction stimulates EphA4 signaling, leading to the promotion of cancer stem cell properties. Therefore, EphA4 has been considered an attractive target for cancer therapies. Thus, monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against EphA4 are essential for basic research and mAb-based treatment in the clinic. In this study, we developed a novel anti-human EphA4 mAb, Ea4Mab-3, using the Cell-Based Immunization and Screening (CBIS) method. Ea4Mab-3 reacted with EphA4-overexpressed Chinese hamster ovary-K1 (CHO/EphA4) and endogenous EphA4-positive lung squamous cell carcinoma LK-2 in flow cytometry. The binding affinities (apparent dissociation constant KD values) were determined as 4.5 × 10-9 M for CHO/EphA4 and 2.5 × 10-9 M for LK-2. Furthermore, Ea4Mab-3 did not exhibit cross-reactivity with other Eph receptor-overexpressed CHO-K1 cells. In addition, Ea4Mab-3 is suitable for immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry. These results indicate that Ea4Mab-3, established using the CBIS method, facilitates basic studies of EphA4 and is expected to be useful for mAb-based tumor diagnosis and therapy.
Effective repair of peripheral nerve injuries often requires nerve grafts, yet outcomes remain suboptimal due to limited intrinsic regenerative support. Developing bioactive grafts to actively orchestrate the regenerative microenvironment is a critical unmet need. Our previous studies have demonstrated that extracellular vesicles from skin-derived precursor Schwann cells remarkedly enhance peripheral nerve regeneration. The purpose of this study was to investigate the molecular mechanisms by which extracellular vesicles from skin-derived precursor Schwann cells influence peripheral nerve regeneration. We established rat models of sciatic nerve defects and designated three intervention groups: autograft, nerve grafts incorporating extracellular vesicles from skin-derived precursor Schwann cells, and a control group with nerve grafts (silicone conduits filled with vehicle). Nerve injury was induced and surgical implantation of the respective grafts to bridge the defect was performed. Transcriptomic profiles (RNA-sequencing) and bioinformatic analyses were performed at 11 time points spanning the 12-week period post-injury. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis revealed that critical regenerative processes, including axon regeneration, myelination, angiogenesis, inflammatory chemotaxis, cell death, and proliferation/migration, occurred in distinct temporal phases. Notably, the nerve grafts incorporating extracellular vesicles from skin-derived precursor Schwann cells demonstrated more robust and temporally coordinated activation of these processes compared with the control groups. Importantly, we found that the nerve grafts incorporating extracellular vesicles from skin-derived precursor Schwann cells downregulated Epha4, which encodes Ephrin receptor A4, a transmembrane receptor known to inhibit Schwann cell migration and myelination. We further identified that vesicle-enriched miR-20b-5p directly targets Epha4. Functional assays confirmed that miR-20b-5p overexpression promoted Schwann cell migration and myelination, whereas its inhibition within nerve grafts incorporating extracellular vesicles from skin-derived precursor Schwann cells attenuated their pro-regenerative effects. This study provides a comprehensive temporal transcriptomic atlas of nerve regeneration and demonstrates that nerve grafts incorporating extracellular vesicles from skin-derived precursor Schwann cells modulate the regenerative microenvironment after peripheral nerve injury via the miR-20b-5p/Epha4 axis. These results offer critical mechanistic insights regarding nerve regeneration and novel therapeutic perspectives for extracellular vesicle-based neural repair strategies.Copyright © 2026 Neural Regeneration Research.
BACKGROUND: The Eph–Ephrin system classically mediates bidirectional signaling through trans-interactions between adjacent cells, whereas cis-interactions within the same cell are generally thought to attenuate signaling. While receptor-mediated forward signaling suppress tumor growth in certain contexts, the receptor EPHA2 frequently exhibits oncogenic activity through ligand-independent, non-canonical signaling. In contrast, the functional contribution of Ephrin ligands and their reverse signaling in tumor progression remains poorly understood. Paradoxically, high expression of Ephrin ligands—typically considered tumor suppressors—is also linked to poor prognosis via unknown mechanisms. This study uncovers a novel mechanism by which Ephrin-B1 drives oral cancer recurrence through active cis-interaction and reverse signaling. METHODS: SILAC-based proteomic profiling was performed to identify membrane-associated proteins and pathways enriched in self-renewing oral cancer cells. Biochemical and imaging approaches, including western blotting, flow cytometry, co-immunoprecipitation, FRET-facilitated photoswitching, and proximity ligation assays (PLA), were used to characterize EPHA2–Ephrin-B1 interactions. In vitro kinase assays assessed direct phosphorylation. Functional relevance was evaluated using ALDH1A1-DsRed2 reporter assays, extreme limiting dilution analysis (ELDA), and Ephrin-B1 phosphorylation-deficient mutants. Domain-mapping studies using EPHA2 deletion mutants identified structural determinants of interaction. Clinical relevance was examined using orthotopic xenograft models, TCGA dataset analyses, and tissue microarray-based immunohistochemistry. RESULTS: Self-renewing oral cancer cells exhibited elevated surface expression of EPHA2 and Ephrin-B1, facilitating their cis-interaction within the same cell. This resulted in direct phosphorylation of Ephrin-B1 at Y317 and Y324/329 and subsequent activation of JNK signaling. Disruption of either EPHA2 expression or Ephrin-B1 phosphorylation significantly reduced cancer stem cell (CSC) frequency and tumor initiation capacity. Our data also suggest that EPHA2’s oncogenic role in CSC regulation is mediated, at least in part, through this reverse signaling mechanism. Mechanistically, the FNIII domain of EPHA2 was required for interaction with Ephrin-B1. Clinically, high co-expression of EPHA2 and Ephrin-B1 correlated with poor patient survival and increased recurrence. CONCLUSIONS: The highlight of our study is the identification of a novel, active cis-interaction-mediated reverse signaling mechanism in the Eph-Ephrin pathway. Our study discovered Ephrin-B1 as an oncogenic ligand in CSCs. This mechanism, distinct from signaling in normal stem cell niches, offers a potential therapeutic target for oral cancer recurrence.
BACKGROUND: Cognitive–exercise dual-task training has been shown to enhance cognitive function through mechanisms such as suppression of chronic inflammation, reduction of oxidative stress, and enhancement of synaptic plasticity. However, the precise mechanisms underlying the ability of dual-task training to delay aging-related cognitive decline remain incompletely understood. METHODS: Aged male C57BL/6J mice were subjected to a 12-week intervention program consisting of cognitive training, exercise, or cognitive–exercise dual-task training. Cognitive and physical function were assessed using a battery of behavioral tests, including the open field test, elevated plus maze test, inverted grid test, wire hanging test, rotarod test, novel object recognition test, novel object localization test, eight-arm maze test, and Morris water maze test. Hippocampal aging and associated molecular changes were assessed using multiple techniques, including terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) staining, Nissl staining, immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, flow cytometry, quantitative polymerase chain reaction, Western blotting, co-immunoprecipitation, and dual-luciferase reporter assays. In addition, we established in vitro models of cellular senescence using D-galactose, RNA overexpression/silencing models utilizing siRNA, and Ephrin type-B receptor 2 (EphB2) inducer/inhibitor models to explore specific molecular mechanisms. RESULTS: Age-related upregulation in microRNA (miR)-204 and downregulation in long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) nuclear enriched abundant transcript 1 (NEAT1) were observed to disrupt Ephrin-B1 (EFNB1)/EphB2 interactions, leading to reduced cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)/protein kinase A (PKA) and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (Akt) signaling pathway activation. These alterations were implicated in the pathogenesis of aging-related cognitive decline. Timely interventions, especially cognitive–exercise dual-task, were found to attenuate these phenomena, thereby delaying the progression of aging-related cognitive decline. CONCLUSIONS: Timely intervention during the aging process can effectively delay the progression of cognitive decline. The effects of cognitive–exercise dual-task training may surpass those of single-task interventions with either cognitive training or exercise alone.
Filtration slit proteins are important for maintaining the integrity of the glomerular filtration barrier. Genetic mutations and environmental factors can disrupt their structure and functions, leading to proteinuria and kidney diseases. This scoping review aims to synthesize the available information on the genetic and environmental factors that affect the slit proteins to enhance our understanding of the (patho)physiology of glomerular filtration.Online databases such as Wiley and PubMed were used. Relevant studies were selected focusing on genetic variations, environmental influences, and their impact on filtration slit proteins. Data extraction and synthesis were conducted to highlight key themes and knowledge gaps.We summarized at least 20 proteins and their genes, including nephrin, podocin, phospholipase C Epsilon 1 (PLCE1), CD2-Associated Protein (CD2AP), ITGA 3, synaptopodin, myosin 1E (MYO1E), flotillin-2 (Flot2), podocalyxin, FAT1, Apo Hemoglobin-Haptoglobin (Apo Hb-Hp), spermidine, P-Cadherin, ephrin B1, Zo- 1 (Zona Occluden), MAGI 1&2 (MAGUK inverted), Par- complex, IP-10 (interferon-inducible protein), neurexin 1, and liver type fatty acid binding protein. We also reported at least 8 environmental factors, including oxidative stress, inflammation, heavy metals, air-bone pollutants, high-fat diets, vitamins and micronutrient deficiency, mechanical stretch, and nephrotoxic agents.This review highlights various filtration slit proteins and the mechanisms of their alterations by genetic and environmental factors. It contributes to efforts toward personalized therapeutic strategies for disorders of glomerular filtration.Copyright © 2025 Adepoju, Muhammad, Adamson, Adewale, Adekunle, Ojulari and Alagbonsi.
Dengue virus (DENV), a member of the Flaviviridae family, is the most prevalent and medically important mosquito-borne viral pathogen. Infected cells secrete the viral non-structural protein 1 (NS1) into the bloodstream, where it can interact with endothelial cells to induce vascular leak. Host factors involved in NS1-mediated endothelial dysfunction are incompletely understood, leading us to investigate the host interactome of DENV NS1 in endothelial cells via a comparative mass spectrometry approach. We identified ephrin B1 (EFNB1) as a critical host factor in NS1-mediated endothelial barrier dysfunction and show that phosphorylation of EFNB1 is necessary for induction of barrier dysfunction. Further, we map the interface of the EFNB1-NS1 complex through biochemical and computational approaches, and we show that EFNB1-Fc-fusion proteins can act as decoys to block NS1-induced barrier dysfunction in vitro and in vivo. This study provides insights into the mechanism of flavivirus NS1-mediated endothelial barrier dysfunction and new avenues to target vascular leak.
The optic tectum of the embryonic chick brain consists of 15 principal laminae arranged in a precise order and each with a unique identity. The transmembrane proteins ephrin-B1 and ephrin-B2 are both expressed during tectal neurogenesis. To investigate their role in establishing tectal lamination, we transfected RCAS-based, replication-competent retroviral expression vectors in ovo to ectopically express ephrin-Bs in the developing tectum, and analyzed the subsequent effect of ectopic domains of ephrin-B2 on tectal lamination and on the trajectories and laminar patterning of RGC axons. We found that ectopic expression of ephrin-B2 in developing tectum disrupted the uniform laminar organization in the developing tectum: e.g. tectal layers are distended coincident with domains of ephrin-B2 overexpression creating a 'roller-coaster'-like effect. The laminar disturbance was not a result of increased or sustained cell proliferation or errors in tectal cell aggregation. Further, while tectal layer-specificity was maintained in transfection domains, afferent primary retinal ganglion cell axons circumvent ectopic domains of ephrin-B2 but appear unperturbed by ephrin-B1 domains, but were able to adjust to the undulations of tectal laminae, and terminate in the appropriate retinorecipient lamina. These findings demonstrate that ephrin-B2 is a repellent for RGC axons and has a unique role in the development of tectal lamination.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Background: Craniofrontonasal dysplasia (CFND) is an X-linked developmental disorder caused by mutations in the EFNB1 gene located on chromosome Xq13. This gene encodes ephrin-B1, a ligand for Eph receptors, which is involved in cell signaling pathways and the development of the nervous and vascular systems, as well as facial and cranial structures. Paradoxically, the syndrome manifests with greater severity in heterozygous females, whereas hemizygous males typically present with mild or no abnormalities. Methods and Results: We report the case of a late preterm female neonate with dysmorphic features at birth, who subsequently developed necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) caused by thrombosis of the superior mesenteric artery. Extensive bowel resection led to short bowel syndrome, resulting in cholestatic liver disease, malabsorption, and growth impairment. Array-comparative genomic hybridization (a-CGH) analysis identified a ~791 Kb microduplication at Xq13.1, encompassing the EFNB1 gene, confirming the diagnosis of CFND. She was enrolled in a multidisciplinary follow-up program and, at 2 years of age, presents with marked growth and neurodevelopmental delay. Conclusions: This report describes a rare association between CFND and NEC caused by superior mesenteric artery thrombosis. To the best of our knowledge, no previously reported cases of CFND associated with thrombosis or thrombosis-related conditions, including NEC, have been identified. This is based on a literature review (2004-2025) performed using PubMed and Scopus, and limited to English-language case reports and reviews.
Erythropoietin-producing hepatocellular (Eph) receptors and their ligands ephrin are membrane-bound molecules that modulate diverse cellular functions in various tissues. We recently reported the co-expression of Efnb1 (ephrin-B1) and Ephb4 (EphB4) in steroidogenic cells of the ovary. Based on these previous findings, we examined the expression and localization of ephrin-B1 and EphB4 in steroidogenic cells of the mouse adrenal gland using RT-PCR and immunofluorescence techniques. To the best of my knowledge, ephrin-B1 and EphB4 expression patterns in the adrenal gland are virtually unknown. We found that ephrin-B1 and EphB4 were co-expressed in steroidogenic cells of zona glomerulosa (zG) and zona fasciculata (zF) in the adrenal cortex of mice. Ephrin-B1 and EphB4 were also co-expressed in cells of x-zone (xZ) in female mice. We also found that ephrin-B1 and EphB4 expression in zG was strong and weak respectively. Ephrin-B1 and EphB4 expression in cells of zF were faint in cells of both mice while strong in juxtamedullary cells of zF in male mice. Ephrin-B1 and EphB4 expression were faint and weak in xZ in female mice respectively. The study represents the first expression analysis of ephrin-B1 and EphB4 in steroidogenic cells in the adrenal glands of the male and female mice.
Henipaviruses (HNVs) like Nipah virus (NiV) and Hendra virus (HeV) represent severe zoonotic threats. Ghana virus (GhV), identified in 2012, is the only African bat henipavirus with a near-complete genome assembly. However, without isolates in culture, GhV biology, pathogenicity, and zoonotic potential remain poorly understood. Using reverse genetics, we recovered a full-length infectious clone of GhV at BSL-4 following rational reconstruction of its incomplete 3' leader and modification of a non-canonical transcriptional initiation site. GhV demonstrated restricted receptor tropism (ephrin-B2 but not ephrin-B3) and distinct innate immune antagonism. Replication was attenuated in primary human cells but was enhanced in bat cells. In Syrian golden hamsters, GhV infection caused no disease or mortality. Furthermore, a chimeric NiV encoding the GhV receptor-binding protein was completely attenuated in vivo, implicating ephrin-B3 receptor usage as a critical determinant of HNV pathogenesis. These findings elucidate GhV zoonotic potential and inform strategies for virus surveillance and control.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Dysregulation of Eph receptor-ephrin signaling contributes to tumorigenesis, yet the specific role of Ephrin B3 in cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) remains poorly understood. This study identifies Ephrin B3 as a critical oncogenic driver in cSCC, demonstrating its significant overexpression in cSCC tissues and association with poor prognosis. To elucidate its tumor-promoting mechanisms, we generated Ephrin B3 knockout (Efnb3-/-) and wild-type (Efnb3WT) mouse models of DMBA/TPA-induced skin carcinogenesis. Strikingly, Ephrin B3 deletion significantly inhibited cSCC carcinogenesis, while its knockdown in A431 human cSCC cells inhibited proliferation, migration, and invasion, underscoring its pivotal role in tumor aggressiveness. Integrative label-free proteomic analysis revealed cytokeratin 19 (CK19) as the most differentially expressed protein in Efnb3WT versus Efnb3-/- mice, establishing a novel molecular connection between Ephrin B3 and CK19. Further mechanistic studies demonstrated that Ephrin B3 positively regulated the NOTCH1 signaling pathway through CK19. Additionally, Reactome pathway analysis implicated Ephrin B3 in inflammation-mediated carcinogenesis through the MAPKs pathway. Consistent with this, Efnb3 deficiency mitigated inflammatory responses in an acute skin inflammation model, suggesting its role in shaping a pro-tumorigenic microenvironment. Collectively, these findings not only establish Ephrin B3 as a potential prognostic biomarker for cSCC but also reveal its dual mechanistic role in fostering tumorigenesis via the CK19-NOTCH1 axis and amplifying inflammation through MAPKs signaling. This study provides groundbreaking insights into multifaceted contributions of Ephrin B3 in cSCC pathogenesis and opens new avenues for targeted therapeutic intervention.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Idiopathic scoliosis (IS) is the most common form of spinal deformity with unclear pathogenesis. In this study, we first reanalyzed the loci associated with IS, drawing upon previous studies. Subsequently, we mapped these loci to candidate genes using either location-based or function-based strategies. To further substantiate our findings, we verified the enrichment of variants within these candidate genes across several large IS cohorts encompassing Chinese, East Asian, and European populations. Consequently, we identified variants in the EPHA4 gene as compelling candidates for IS. To confirm their pathogenicity, we generated zebrafish mutants of epha4a. Remarkably, the zebrafish epha4a mutants exhibited pronounced scoliosis during later stages of development, effectively recapitulating the IS phenotype. We observed that the epha4a mutants displayed defects in left-right coordination during locomotion, which arose from disorganized neural activation in these mutants. Our subsequent experiments indicated that the disruption of the central pattern generator (CPG) network, characterized by abnormal axon guidance of spinal cord interneurons, contributed to the disorganization observed in the mutants. Moreover, when knocked down efnb3b, the ligand for Epha4a, we observed similar CPG defects and disrupted left-right locomotion. These findings suggested that ephrin B3-Epha4 signaling is vital for the proper functioning of CPGs, and defects in this pathway could lead to scoliosis in zebrafish. Furthermore, we identified two cases of IS in NGEF, a downstream molecule in the EPHA4 pathway. Collectively, our data provide compelling evidence that neural patterning impairments and disruptions in CPGs may underlie the pathogenesis of IS.© 2024, Wang, Yang, Zhao et al.
Both social and physical environmental factors influence the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the underlying mechanisms are not yet fully understood. This study aims to investigate how an enriched environment (EE) alleviates the detrimental effects of early social isolation (SI) on AD-like pathophysiology.Four-week-old 5×FAD transgenic mice were randomly divided into group-housed and isolated groups. After 3 weeks, the mice were further raised in either a physical EE or a standard environment for an additional 3 weeks. Subsequently, these experimental subjects underwent a two-week of behavioral tests while maintaining their original housing conditions unchanged, followed by neuropathological analyses. A series of experiments were conducted on the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), including transcriptome sequencing, cellular localization, and knockdown and overexpression of a candidate gene, to identify the key molecules through which physical EE alleviates SI-induced AD-like alterations. The protective effects of the identified gene on cultured forebrain neurons exposed to β-amyloid stimulation, as well as its associated signaling pathways, were also investigated.EE enhanced cognitive function and alleviated anxiety-like behavior in SI-5×FAD mice, partially reversing dendritic and synaptic loss and glial cell activation in the mPFC. However, it did not mitigate deficits in social and cooperative behaviors, hypomyelination, or β-amyloid deposition. Notably, group-housed 5×FAD mice raised in the EE exhibited alleviation of the aforementioned AD-like phenotypes. Transcriptomic and bioinformatic analyses pinpointed Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor 7 (Arhgef7) as a pivotal mediator of the beneficial effects of physical EE. Arhgef7 overexpression in mPFC neurons enhanced dendritic and synaptic growth and alleviated spatial cognitive impairments and anxiety-like behavior in SI-5×FAD mice, but it did not correct hypomyelination or social behavior deficits. Consistently, knockdown of Arhgef7 in mPFC neurons of group-housed 5×FAD mice selectively impaired neuronal processes and spatial cognition, and increased anxiety-like behavior. Mechanistically, Arhgef7 protected cortical neurons from β-amyloid toxicity by activating the Wnt signaling pathway.Arhgef7 in mPFC neurons is essential for the physical components of EE selectively alleviating spatial cognitive deficits and anxiety-like behaviors in early isolated AD model mice, serving as a potential target for the prevention and treatment of AD.© 2025. The Author(s).
Chidamide, a histone deacetylase inhibitor with established anti-tumor properties, requires further investigation regarding its specific impact on lung cancer progression. Our results showed that chidamide treatment significantly inhibited proliferation, migration, and invasion of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cells while inducing apoptosis. The treatment with chidamide also downregulated methyltransferase 3 (METTL3), the catalytic subunit of the N6-adenosine-methyltransferase complex, in A549 and H1299 cells. Overexpression of METTL3 reversed the inhibitory effects of chidamide on NSCLC cell progression. Furthermore, we found that METTL3 stabilized EPH receptor A7 (EPHA7) expression through an m6A-dependent mechanism. Conversely, overexpression of EPHA7 counteracted the effects of METTL3 silencing or chidamide treatment in both cell lines. In vivo, chidamide treatment reduced EPHA7 protein expression by regulating METTL3, leading to inhibited tumor growth. Collectively, these findings identified the METTL3/EPHA7 axis as a key mediator of chidamide's anti-tumor effects, suggesting chidamide's potential as a novel therapeutic strategy for NSCLC.
Congenital mirror movement disorders (CMMs) are clinically and genetically heterogeneous in human patients. CMMs have not been documented to occur spontaneously in animals.The objective of this work was to document the first case of CMMs spontaneously occurring in Weimaraner dogs and to identify the underlying genetic cause.Clinical and pathological investigations were performed. Genetic investigations used linkage and autozygosity mapping followed by whole-genome sequencing of 3 affected dogs and 1489 control dogs to identify disease-associated variants.Three of 11 puppies in a litter of Weimaraner dogs exhibited an abnormal gait characterized by synchronized saltatorial locomotion. Their phenotype was tentatively termed congenital mirror movement disorder 1 (CMM1). The underlying genetic cause was identified as a 2-bp duplication in EFNB3 encoding ephrin-B3, a transmembrane protein important for axon guidance and spinal midline barrier formation during neurodevelopment. The identified variant, XM_038536724.1:c.643_644dup, is predicted to lead to a frameshift and introduction of a premature stop codon XP_038392652.1:p.(Ala216Valfs*79). CMM1 is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait in these dogs.Similar to humans, CMMs may occur in dogs as an inherited disease as a result of a spontaneously arisen genetic variant. The CMM1 phenotype in dogs resembles the phenotype of experimentally induced Efnb3-/- knockout mice. So far, no human patients with EFNB3-related CMMs have been reported. Our study provides the first naturally occurring large-animal model for CMMs. EFNB3 should be considered a candidate gene in human CMM patients with unclear disease etiology. © 2025 The Author(s). Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.© 2025 The Author(s). Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.
The ephrin family of membrane proteins mediate intracellular signalling as ligands of transmembrane Eph tyrosine kinase receptors during cell-cell interactions. Ephrin/Eph signalling regulates processes like cell migration and angiogenesis and is of particular importance during embryonic development. Ephrins-A3 and -B3 can also bind to cell surface-associated and soluble heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HSPGs) that also play important roles during early development. Here we show that ephrins-B1, -B2, and -B3 all can bind in cis to cell surface HSPGs, while only ephrin-B1 interacts with cell surface HSPGs in a way that retards HSPG endocytosis. Expressing ephrin-B1 in HEK293T cells, using polyethyleneimine (PEI) as transfection agent, increased cell surface levels of HSPGs which were detected by an anti-heparan sulfate (HS) antibody or by ephrin-B3-Fc binding. Ephrin-B1 in the plasma membrane seemed to retard PEI-induced HSPG internalisation and degradation. Binding of HSPGs by ephrin-B1 was observed for the human, mouse, xenopus, and zebrafish homologs, and did not require the cytoplasmic tail of ephrin-B1 that contains tyrosines shown to be involved in intracellular signalling. Furthermore, ephrin-B1 could bind the HSPG variant of CD44 (CD44V3-10), a complex that could further associate with fibroblast growth factor receptors (1 and 4) after co-expression with one of these receptors. In summary, our data indicate that ephrin-B1 can regulate cellular HSPG turnover and is able to form complexes of potential biological importance with CD44V3-10 and fibroblast growth factor receptors.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press.
Background: Thymic epithelial tumors (TETs) are the most common primary neoplasms of the anterior mediastinum and present a dual classification challenge, namely anatomical staging according to the Masaoka-Koga system and histological risk stratification according to the World Health Organization (WHO) classification. Both tasks rely on expert pathological assessment and may be affected by interobserver variability. This study applied supervised machine learning (ML) to quantitative immunohistochemical (IHC) H-score profiles to predict Masaoka-Koga stage and WHO risk group in TETs. Methods: Logistic regression (LR) and XGBoost were applied to 19 biomarkers, including cellular localization, across two parallel analyses. Masaoka-Koga stage prediction was performed in 81 patients, including 59 early-stage and 22 advanced-stage cases, using the Synthetic Minority Oversampling Technique (SMOTE) across 100 train/test splits. WHO risk group prediction was performed in 89 patients, including 45 low-risk and 44 high-risk tumors, without oversampling. A cross-endpoint analysis applied the optimal Masaoka-Koga model to the WHO endpoint. Results: LR consistently outperformed XGBoost. The optimal Masaoka-Koga model combined Eph receptor A6 (EphA6) membranous, Yes-associated protein (YAP) nuclear, and histone deacetylase 4 (HDAC4) cytoplasmic H-scores, achieving an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.756. The optimal WHO model combined transcriptional coactivator with PDZ-binding motif (TAZ) cytoplasmic, EphA6 membranous, and YAP nuclear H-scores, achieving an AUC of 0.936. The Masaoka-Koga triad predicted WHO risk group with an AUC of 0.901. No tetrad improved trivariate performance. Conclusions: IHC H-score profiling combined with supervised ML identifies biologically interpretable candidate signatures for TET classification, although prospective external validation is required before clinical application.
Ephexin1, also known as neuronal guanine nucleotide exchange factor (NGEF), plays a key role in axon guidance and synaptic homeostasis. However, our recent studies have revealed a critical role for Ephexin1 in the pathogenesis of colon and lung cancers. Here we used multidisciplinary approaches to further explore the underlying mechanisms of Ephexin1 in cancer progression. We discovered that Ephexin1 is essential for promoting polysome formation by coordinating the assembly of translation initiation complexes. Our investigations into gene expression affected by Ephexin1 deficiency showed that Ephexin1 specifically promotes the translation of genes containing 5'-terminal oligopyrimidine (TOP) or 5'-TOP-like motifs, identifying Ephexin1 as a key mediator of mTOR-regulated translation. Importantly, we found that the efficacy of mTOR inhibitors in treating lung cancer was significantly enhanced in a mouse xenograft model when Ephexin1 was deficient. This suggests that Ephexin1 could serve as a synthetic lethality target for mTORC1-targeting therapeutics in cancer treatment. Our findings provide mechanistic insights into the role of Ephexin1 in cancer pathogenesis and highlight its potential as a therapeutic target for improving current cancer treatment strategies.© 2025. The Author(s).
Neural infiltration has been found in various cancers and the infiltrating nerves influence tumor growth and dissemination. In non-small cell lung cancer, pan-neuronal marker PGP9.5 was detected by immunohistochemical staining and its high expression correlated with poor prognosis. However, the existence of nerve fibers and the mechanism driving neural infiltration remains unclear.We first used immunohistochemical staining to assess the density of nerve fibers in patients with lung adenocarcinoma of different tumor sizes. Following that, we performed differential expression analysis and univariate Cox prognostic analysis, using public datasets and cell experiments to identify the gene that triggers neural infiltration and is associated with cancer progression and unfavorable prognosis. Finally, molecular biology experiments and a subcutaneous tumor model were used to deeply analyze the mechanism that the gene regulates neural infiltration and tumor progression.In lung adenocarcinoma patients, the density of PGP9.5 positive nerve fibers within tumors larger than 2 cm in diameter is significantly higher than that in tumors smaller than 2 cm. Bioinformatics analysis suggested NGEF, KIF4A, and PABPC1 could be the genes that trigger neural infiltration and are associated with cancer progression and unfavorable prognosis. Subsequent co-culture experiments with neurons showed that the increased expression of NGEF in lung cancer cells significantly enhanced axonal growth in neurons. Meanwhile, GSE30219 datasets indicated that patients exhibiting high levels of NGEF expression are associated with larger tumor sizes, higher lymph node involvement, and reduced overall survival rates. At the level of molecular mechanisms, the knockdown of Ephrin-A3 in ND7/23 neurons or the use of ALW-II-41-27 resulted in a significant decrease in neurite outgrowth when co-cultured with LA795 cells. In animal model, NGEF overexpression significantly promoted tumor growth and increased the density of nerve fibers, and these effects were inhibited by ALW-II-41-27.NGEF facilitates the infiltration of nerve and the growth of cancer cells in lung adenocarcinoma through the Ephrin-A3/EphA2 pathway, suggesting that NGEF is a promising target for disrupting interactions between nerves and tumors. Biomaterials that focus on NGEF are anticipated to be a potential treatment option for lung cancer.© 2025. The Author(s).
Neuronal guanine nucleotide exchange factor (NGEF) plays a key role in several cancers; however, its role in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) remains unclear. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of NGEF as a prognostic biomarker and potential therapeutic target for LUAD.NGEF expression data for multiple cancers and LUAD were downloaded from multiple databases. The high- and low-NGEF expression groups were constructed based on median NGEF expression in LUAD samples, and then performed Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) from the two NGEF expression groups were screened and applied to construct a protein-protein interaction network. The primary pathways were obtained using gene set enrichment analysis. The associations between NGEF expression and clinical characteristics, immune infiltration, immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs), sensitivity to chemotherapy, and tumor mutation burden (TMB) were investigated using R. Levels of NGEF expression in the lung tissue was validated using single-cell RNA sequencing, quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), immunohistochemical staining, and western blot analysis.The expression of NGEF mRNA was upregulated in multiple cancers. mRNA and protein expression levels of NGEF were higher in patients with LUAD than in controls, as validated using qPCR and western blot. High NGEF expression was an independent prognostic factor for LUAD and was associated with advanced tumor stage, large tumor size, more lymph node metastasis, and worse overall survival (OS). A total of 182 overlapping DEGs were screened between The Cancer Genome Atlas and GSE31210, among which the top 20 hub genes were identified. NGEF expression was mainly enriched in the pathways of apoptosis, cell cycle, and DNA replication. Moreover, elevated NGEF expression were associated with a high fraction of activated memory CD4+ T cells and M0 macrophages; elevated expression levels of the ICIs: programmed cell death 1 and programmed cell death 1 ligand 1 expression; higher TMB; and better sensitivity to bortezomib, docetaxel, paclitaxel, and parthenolide, but less sensitivity to axitinib and metformin.NGEF expression is upregulated in LUAD and is significantly associated with tumor stages, OS probability, immune infiltration, immunotherapy response, and chemotherapy response. NGEF may be a potential diagnostic and prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target in LUAD.© 2024. The Author(s).
Runs of Homozygosity (ROH) are continuous homozygous DNA segments in diploid genomes, which have been used to estimate the genetic diversity, inbreeding levels, and genes associated with specific traits in livestock. In this study, we analyzed the resequencing data from 10 local goat breeds in Yunnan province of China and five additional goat populations obtained from a public database. The ROH analysis revealed 21,029 ROH segments across the 15 populations, with an average length of 1.27 Mb, a pattern of ROH, and the assessment of the inbreeding coefficient indicating genetic diversity and varying levels of inbreeding. iHS (integrated haplotype score) was used to analyze high-frequency Single-Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) in ROH regions, specific genes related to economic traits such as coat color and weight variation. These candidate genes include OCA2 (OCA2 melanosomal transmembrane protein) and MLPH (melanophilin) associated with coat color, EPHA6 (EPH receptor A6) involved in litter size, CDKAL1 (CDK5 regulatory subunit associated protein 1 like 1) and POMC (proopiomelanocortin) linked to weight variation and some putative genes associated with high-altitude adaptability and immune. This study uncovers genetic diversity and inbreeding levels within local goat breeds in Yunnan province, China. The identification of specific genes associated with economic traits and adaptability provides actionable insights for utilization and conservation efforts.
Tick-borne encephalitis virus (TBEV), the most medically relevant tick-transmitted flavivirus in Eurasia, targets the host central nervous system and frequently causes severe encephalitis. The severity of TBEV-induced neuropathogenesis is highly cell-type specific and the exact mechanism responsible for such differences has not been fully described yet. Thus, we performed a comprehensive analysis of alterations in host poly-(A)/miRNA/lncRNA expression upon TBEV infection in vitro in human primary neurons (high cytopathic effect) and astrocytes (low cytopathic effect). Infection with severe but not mild TBEV strain resulted in a high neuronal death rate. In comparison, infection with either of TBEV strains in human astrocytes did not. Differential expression and splicing analyses with an in silico prediction of miRNA/mRNA/lncRNA/vd-sRNA networks found significant changes in inflammatory and immune response pathways, nervous system development and regulation of mitosis in TBEV Hypr-infected neurons. Candidate mechanisms responsible for the aforementioned phenomena include specific regulation of host mRNA levels via differentially expressed miRNAs/lncRNAs or vd-sRNAs mimicking endogenous miRNAs and virus-driven modulation of host pre-mRNA splicing. We suggest that these factors are responsible for the observed differences in the virulence manifestation of both TBEV strains in different cell lines. This work brings the first complex overview of alterations in the transcriptome of human astrocytes and neurons during the infection by two TBEV strains of different virulence. The resulting data could serve as a starting point for further studies dealing with the mechanism of TBEV-host interactions and the related processes of TBEV pathogenesis.© 2022 The Authors.
Patients with insulin resistance exhibit reduced cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF), assessed by peak oxygen consumption (VO₂peak), compared with healthy age-matched individuals. Although high-intensity interval training (HIIT) can substantially improve VO₂peak, there is considerable interindividual variability in this response. Therefore, further research is needed to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying the heterogeneous response of VO₂peak to HIIT in individuals with prediabetes.Proteomic analyses of serum samples, along with fecal metagenomic and targeted metabolomic profiling, were conducted in medication-naïve, overweight and obese Chinese men with prediabetes (n = 35; aged 24-62 years). All participants underwent a 12-week HIIT intervention, and biological samples were collected both before and after the intervention to evaluate exercise-induced alterations in circulating proteins, gut microbial composition, and metabolite profiles.After 12 weeks of HIIT, mean VO₂peak increased by 0.47 L/min with individual responses ranging from 0 to 1.7 L/min. Baseline levels of short-chain fatty acid (SCFA)-producing genera, including Prevotella (β = 105.65, P = < 0.001, FDR = 0.034), Coprococcus (β = 50.22, P = 0.01, FDR = 0.39), and Hungatella (β = 40.72, P = 0.025, FDR = 0.50), were positively associated with ΔVO₂ peak. In contrast, baseline levels of the erythropoiesis-stimulating hormone erythropoietin (EPO) (β = -279.03, P = 0.024, FDR = 0.99) were negatively associated with ΔVO₂ peak. Exercise-induced changes in growth hormone 1 (β = 63.97, P = 0.04, FDR = 0.99) were positively associated with ΔVO₂ peak, whereas exercise-induced changes in BTB and CNC Homology 1 (β = -250.82, P = 0.01, FDR = 0.99), a repressor of heme oxygenase-1, were negatively associated with ΔVO₂ peak. In multiple linear regression analysis including clinical variables, percentage lean mass (β = 64.17, P = 0.0005) was the strongest variable associated with ΔVO₂peak. The clinical model explained 27% of the variance which increased to 37% (P = 0.002) upon inclusion of exercise-associated circulating factors such as EPO.Our findings reveal that baseline proteomic and metagenomic signatures are associated with VO₂peak adaptations. These multi-omics signatures may support the clinical implementation of personalized exercise interventions to improve CRF in individuals with prediabetes.© 2026. The Author(s).
Suppressor of cytokine signaling 2 (SOCS2) is a classical feedback inhibitor of JAK-STAT signaling, but its role in porcine adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells (PADSCs) and fat deposition remains unclear. Here, we investigated the function and mechanism of SOCS2 in PADSC proliferation and adipogenic differentiation. SOCS2 overexpression reduced colony number, slowed CCK-8 growth curves, and induced G0/G1 arrest, whereas SOCS2 knockdown enhanced proliferation and promoted the G1/S transition. In parallel, SOCS2 overexpression decreased lipid droplet accumulation and downregulated adipogenic markers, while SOCS2 silencing produced the opposite effects, indicating that SOCS2 negatively regulates both PADSC expansion and adipocyte formation. Transcriptomic analysis showed that SOCS2 mainly influenced pathways related to extracellular matrix organization, cell cycle, and cytokine/inflammatory signaling. At the protein level, SOCS2 silencing increased total JAK2 and STAT3, whereas SOCS2 overexpression reduced JAK2 abundance and STAT3 activation, accompanied by concordant changes in Cyclin D1, CDK2, and PCNA. Collectively, these results suggest that SOCS2 exerts dual negative effects on PADSC proliferation and adipogenic differentiation, accompanied by changes in JAK2-STAT3 signaling. These findings provide functional evidence supporting SOCS2 as a candidate gene related to porcine fat deposition and provide a basis for further genetic validation in pig breeding populations.© 2026 Stichting International Foundation for Animal Genetics.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42229630 is a review article
The 20- and 22-kDa isoforms of growth hormone 1 (GH1) play potentially distinct physiological and pathological roles, but their structural similarity makes quantification challenging. Conventional immunoassays lack sufficient specificity, highlighting the need for more precise analytical methods.We developed a method combining immunocapture with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) for precise quantification of GH1 isoforms, with evaluation of sensitivity, accuracy, precision, and linearity. GH1 was isolated from 1-mL serum samples by immunocapture using antibody-coated magnetic beads, eluted, and quantified by LC-MS/MS. Stable isotope-labeled 22-kDa GH1 was used as an internal standard (IS). Clinical applicability was evaluated by analyzing serum GH1 isoforms in 63 patients with somatotroph adenoma.The assay demonstrated linear dynamic ranges of 0.2-20.0 μg/L for 20-kDa GH1 and 1.0-100.0 μg/L for 22-kDa GH1. Intra- and inter-assay coefficients of variation were <10 %, and recoveries ranged from 95.0 to 102.5 % after IS correction. Although total GH1 concentrations measured by LC-MS/MS were systematically lower than those obtained by immunoassay, the two methods were strongly correlated (r=0.991, p<0.01). Most patients with somatotroph adenoma (80.0 %; 51/63) exhibited increased 22/20-kDa GH1 ratios, while six patients with unfavorable clinical features and endocrine prognosis exhibited elevated 20-kDa GH1 levels.This immunocapture LC-MS/MS method enables simultaneous quantification of 20- and 22-kDa GH1 isoforms without enzymatic digestion. The implementation of this method may refine the assessment of biochemical remission and prognostic stratification in GH-related disorders.© 2026 Walter de Gruyter GmbH, Berlin/Boston.
Irisin, an adipomyokine primarily known for its role in metabolic regulation, has recently emerged as a potential regulator of reproductive function. While its ovarian actions have been partially characterised, its influence on the anterior pituitary remains largely unexplored. This study aimed to investigate the in vitro effects of irisin on the transcriptome of porcine anterior pituitary cells (APc) isolated from gilts on days 15-16 of pregnancy. Primary APc were isolated from pigs on days 15-16 of pregnancy and treated with 300 ng/mL of irisin. RNA sequencing (NovaSeq 6000, Illumina) was performed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs), long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs), and alternative splicing (AS) events. Functional annotation was performed using Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses. Selected transcripts were validated by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and quantitative PCR (qPCR). Irisin treatment altered the expression of 500 genes, 747 lncRNAs, and 245 transcripts undergoing AS events. Differentially expressed genes were enriched in pathways related to hormonal signalling, angiogenesis, calcium signalling, and cell remodelling. Notably, genes encoding key regulators of these processes, such as growth hormone 1, insulin-like growth factor type 1, somatostatin, prolactin receptor, and progesterone receptor, were modulated. Pathway enrichment analysis indicated enrichment of genes assigned to Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription, phosphoinositide 3-kinase/protein kinase B, and mitogen-activated protein kinase signalling cascades. This study provides the first comprehensive transcriptomic profiles of irisin action on porcine APc during early pregnancy. Irisin can modulate endocrine, structural, and molecular functions through both transcriptional and post-transcriptional mechanisms, positioning it as a novel modulator of pituitary adaptation in early gestation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by progressive memory decline and neuronal loss, driven primarily by dysregulated inflammatory signaling. Signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 (STAT6) is a member of the STAT family and has been implicated in the progression of various diseases. This study aimed to investigate whether inhibiting STAT6 and its downstream target, suppressor of cytokine signaling 2 (SOCS2), could mitigate Aβ1-42-induced neuronal injury in both cellular and animal models of AD. AD-like pathology was induced in Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 10 per group) by intracerebral administration of amyloid β1-42 (Aβ1-42). Radial arm maze test, elevated plus maze test, and passive avoidance task were performed to estimate cognitive impairments of AD rats. H&E and TUNEL staining were performed to analyze pathological changes as well as neuron loss and apoptosis. HT-22 neuron cells were exposed to Aβ1-42 to establish an AD-relevant in vitro model. Cell viability and apoptosis were evaluated via CCK-8 and flow cytometry. Bax and Bcl-2 levels were estimated by Western blotting. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) production was measured using the DCFH-DA assay. ChIP and luciferase reporter assays were performed to assess the interaction between STAT6 and SOCS2 promoter. The results showed that STAT6 expression was significantly upregulated in the hippocampus of rats following Aβ1-42 infusion. Silencing of STAT6 alleviated Aβ1-42-induced cognitive impairments in AD rats by significantly reducing neuronal apoptosis (as evidenced by fewer TUNEL-positive cells), attenuating oxidative stress (indicated by reduced MDA levels and restored activities of antioxidant enzymes SOD and GSH-Px), and downregulating SOCS2 levels in vivo. Consistently, in vitro experiments demonstrated that STAT6 knockdown in HT-22 hippocampal neurons markedly inhibited Aβ1-42-triggered apoptosis, intracellular ROS accumulation, and oxidative stress marker dysregulation, whereas overexpressed STAT6 exerted an opposite role. Notably, STAT6 was found to bind to the SOCS2 promoter region. Functionally, SOCS2 overexpression alone accelerated HT-22 cell injury, and critically, it abolished the neuroprotective effects conferred by STAT6 depletion, specifically reversing the suppression of apoptosis and oxidative stress. These findings implicate that the STAT6-SOCS2 axis contributes to AD pathology, and their inhibition exerts neuroprotective effects.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Arthralgia, an early manifestation preceding definite rheumatoid arthritis (RA), represents a critical window to identify high-risk individuals and implement timely interventions. However, the immunopathologic mechanisms underlying the transition from arthralgia to established RA remain incompletely defined.We employed a multiomics strategy integrating peripheral immune cell phenotyping, serum proteomics, and autoantibody profiling to investigate the immunopathologic continuum from preclinical to established RA. A prospective cohort of 346 patients with recent-onset arthralgia was enrolled. Participants included healthy controls, self-limiting arthralgia (SLA), arthralgia at risk of RA (at-risk individuals, ARI), early RA, and established RA. RA development in ARI was ascertained through 24-month follow-up.Compared with SLA, ARI showed immune dysregulation, including reduced Treg cells and a lower Treg/Th17 cell ratio, with related changes persisting into early RA. Serum proteomics revealed upregulation of C5, α-1-B glycoprotein, RPUSD4, WDR87, and FUBP2, which showed inverse associations with Treg cells. Autoantibody profiling identified stage-specific reactivity, with ARI showing elevated antibodies against stress-related proteins. Within 24 months, 18.4% of ARI progressed to RA (converters). Baseline immunophenotypic differences between converters and nonconverters were comparable, whereas longitudinal paired analyses revealed a reduction in Treg cells and Treg/Th17 cell ratio. Treg/Th17 cell ratio (area under the curve [AUC] 0.734) outperformed anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide (CCP; AUC 0.611) in discriminating ARI from SLA, particularly in patients who are anticitrullinated peptide antibodies negative (AUC 0.729). Combining Treg cells, anti-CCP and Treg/Th17 cell ratio improved classification performance (AUC 0.783).These findings delineate a critical transition from reversible immune dysregulation to established autoimmunity along the arthralgia-RA continuum, suggesting that Treg cell-related dysregulation may be associated with progression toward persistent inflammatory arthritis.© 2026 American College of Rheumatology.
Prostate cancer (PCa) frequently progresses to castration-resistant stages with poor prognosis, in which vasculogenic mimicry (VM) contributes to tumor aggressiveness and therapeutic resistance. Here, we investigated the antitumor effects of the natural quassinoid Ailanthone (AIL) and its impact on VM in PCa. Our study demonstrates that AIL markedly suppresses PCa cell viability, induces apoptosis and G1/S cell-cycle arrest, and inhibits migration, invasion, stemness, and VM formation. Mechanistically, AIL enhances early growth response protein 3 (EGR3) binding to the promoter of suppressor of cytokine signaling 2 (SOCS2), leading to SOCS2 upregulation and subsequent inhibition of JAK/STAT3 signaling. Functional rescue experiments reveal that SOCS2 or EGR3 silencing partially reverses the inhibitory effects of AIL on malignant phenotypes and VM. In vivo, AIL significantly reduces tumor growth, promotes apoptosis, and attenuates VM formation, effects that are weakened upon SOCS2 knockdown. Collectively, these findings indicate that AIL exerts potent anti-tumor and anti-VM activities in PCa by activating the EGR3-SOCS2 axis and suppressing JAK/STAT3 signaling, highlighting its potential as a promising therapeutic strategy for advanced and treatment-resistant PCa.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Polyprenal reductase is an enzyme encoded by the SRD5A3 gene, which is involved in the synthesis of dolichol from polyprenol. Dolichol serves as a carrier for glycan precursors or monosaccharides in N-linked glycosylation. Pathogenic variants in SRD5A3 can result in a congenital disorder of glycosylation (CDG), SRD5A3-CDG, which is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Most plasma proteins are glycosylated and changes in the glycosylation of several glycoproteins are associated with pathological consequences. Despite the critical role of SRD5A3 in glycosylation, the impact of its deficiency on the glycosylation of serum proteins remains largely unexplored. In this study, we used tandem mass tag-based multiplexed quantitative approach to analyze serum N-glycoproteomics and proteomics in SRD5A3-CDG patients and controls. We quantified 2200 serum N-glycopeptides from 359 N-glycosites from 204 serum proteins. Extensive hypoglycosylation of serum proteins was observed in patients, with 245 of 291 altered glycopeptides decreased in SRD5A3-CDG. Altered glycopeptides included those derived from haptoglobin, plasma serine protease inhibitor, alpha-1-B glycoprotein, alpha-2-macroglobulin, and ceruloplasmin. Some of these proteins have previously been reported to be associated with liver dysfunction, anemia, and coagulopathy, which could underlie similar clinical features observed in SRD5A3-CDG patients. Overall, our study provides novel insights into alterations in the glycosylation status of specific serum proteins in SRD5A3-CDG. Some of these alterations could be further pursued to develop glycopeptide-based biomarkers as the current diagnosis of SRD5A3-CDG by screening assays remains challenging. In addition, knowledge of altered glycoproteins could enhance our understanding of the disease spectrum and potentially unveil additional therapeutic avenues.© 2026 SSIEM.
Antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) are expanding treatment options in endometrial carcinoma, but the distribution of actionable surface targets across histologic, molecular, and genomic subgroups remains incompletely defined.This single-institution retrospective tissue microarray (TMA) study included 312 endometrial carcinomas: 158 endometrioid and 154 serous tumors. Trophoblast cell-surface antigen 2 (TROP2) was quantified by histochemical score (H-score); human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) was assessed using endometrial carcinoma-specific and gastric/DESTINY-PanTumor02 criteria; and folate receptor alpha (FRα) positivity was defined as ≥75% viable tumor cells with ≥2+ membranous staining. Molecular class was assigned using a hierarchical DNA polymerase epsilon (POLE)-mutant, microsatellite instability/mismatch repair-deficient (MSI/MMRd), p53-abnormal, and no specific molecular profile (NSMP) classifier. Tumor mutational burden (TMB) and recurrent genomic alterations were analyzed in relation to biomarker expression.TROP2 was broadly expressed, with median H-scores of 280 in endometrioid and 200 in serous carcinomas. HER2 gastric-score 2+/3+ expression and FRα positivity were enriched in serous versus endometrioid carcinoma (22.5% vs 8.9% and 20.1% vs 4.4%), restricted to FIGO grade 3 tumors, and concentrated in p53-abnormal disease. FRα positivity was absent in POLE-mutant and MSI/MMRd tumors. HER2 2+/3+ expression correlated with erb-b2 receptor tyrosine kinase 2 (ERBB2) alterations, whereas FRα-positive tumors were enriched for TP53 alterations and showed lower frequencies of ARID1A and PTEN alterations. Triple-negative TROP2/HER2/FRα tumors were uncommon (6/308, 1.9%).TROP2 is broadly expressed in endometrial carcinoma, whereas HER2 and FRα define a more restricted high-grade, serous/serous-like, p53-abnormal compartment, supporting biomarker-informed ADC development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Deucravacitinib, an oral, selective, tyrosine kinase 2 inhibitor, is approved for adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis who are candidates for systemic therapy and for adults with active psoriatic arthritis.We evaluated deucravacitinib safety and efficacy over 5 years in the phase 3 POETYK PSO-1, PSO-2, and long-term extension (LTE) trials in patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis.PSO-1 and PSO-2 (parent trials) randomized patients 1:2:1 to oral placebo, deucravacitinib 6 mg once daily, or apremilast 30 mg twice daily. At 52 weeks, patients enrolled in the LTE trial received open-label deucravacitinib. Safety was reported as exposure-adjusted incidence rates (EAIRs) per 100 person-years (PY). Clinician- and patient-reported outcomes were analyzed using modified nonresponder imputation in patients receiving continuous deucravacitinib from day 1 (PSO-1/PSO-2) through 5 years.Overall, 1519 patients received one or more deucravacitinib dose; total exposure was 5046.7 PY through data cutoff (September 2, 2024). EAIRs/100 PY were comparable or decreased from the 1-year to 5-year cumulative period for adverse events (AEs) (229.23, 127.40, respectively), serious AEs (5.68, 5.06), discontinuation due to AEs (4.38, 2.09), deaths (0.20, 0.22), serious infections excluding coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) (1.53, 0.94), malignancies (1.02, 0.92), major adverse cardiovascular events (0.30, 0.34), and venous thromboembolism (0.20, 0.06). Clinical outcomes were well-maintained in patients receiving continuous deucravacitinib (n = 513) from 1 through 5 years, including achievement of a ≥ 75% reduction from baseline in the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (1 year, 72.1% [95% CI 68.2-76.1]; 5 years, 67.3% [62.0-72.6]) and a static Physician Global Assessment score of 0 (clear) or 1 (almost clear) (1 year, 57.5% [53.1-61.9]; 5 years, 52.6% [47.0-58.1]). Dermatology Life Quality Index 0 or 1 was well-maintained from 1 year (52.5% [48.0-57.1]) through 5 years (45.4% [40.0-50.8]).These findings demonstrate a consistent safety profile with no new safety signals and durable clinical response through 5 years of treatment with deucravacitinib.NCT03624127, NCT03611751, NCT04036435.© 2026. The Author(s).
The randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 3 Program fOr Evaluation of TYK2 inhibitor Psoriatic Arthritis-1 (POETYK PsA-1) trial evaluated the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of deucravacitinib, an oral, selective tyrosine kinase 2 inhibitor, in patients with PsA naïve to biologic disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs.Adults with active PsA, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein concentration ≥ 3 mg/L, and ≥ 1 PsA-related hand and/or foot erosion detectable via radiograph were randomised 1:1 to oral deucravacitinib 6 mg once daily or placebo through week (W) 16. At W16, patients continued receiving deucravacitinib or switched from placebo to deucravacitinib through W52. The primary endpoint was American College of Rheumatology 20% improvement in response (ACR20) at W16. Nonresponder imputation was used for missing data. Efficacy and safety were evaluated through W52. Post hoc rank analysis of covariance was used to evaluate structural damage with no missing data imputation.In 670 patients, a significantly greater proportion of those receiving deucravacitinib vs placebo achieved ACR20 at W16 (54.2% vs 34.1%, P < .001). Responses with deucravacitinib were increased at W52. Patients who switched from placebo to deucravacitinib achieved improvements similar to those in patients who received continuous deucravacitinib. Inhibition of structural damage was observed at W16 and W52. At W16, incidences of serious adverse events (AEs) (deucravacitinib, 1.8%; placebo, 2.4%) and discontinuations due to AEs (2.4%; 1.8%) were low and remained low through W52, without imbalances in cardiovascular events, malignancies, or opportunistic infections. No new safety signals were detected; no deaths occurred.Deucravacitinib demonstrated superiority vs placebo for clinical responses, patient-reported outcomes, and structural damage inhibition in patients with PsA, with favourable tolerability and safety.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Adenine-thymine (AT)-rich interactive domain-containing protein 5a (Arid5a) is an RNA-binding protein (RBP) that post-transcriptionally stabilizes mRNAs encoding proinflammatory mediators, including Interleukin-6 (IL-6), thereby amplifying inflammation. However, structural basis and regulatory mechanisms of Arid5a function remain poorly defined. In this study, we identified and characterized a conserved allosteric site within the ARID domain that regulates Arid5a-mediated mRNA stabilization. Using integrative in silico modeling and in vitro assays, 2 picolinamide-based inhibitors, NFP1 and NFP2, were designed to specifically engage the allosteric site constituent residues. Mutational and functional analyses revealed Tyr88 and Val91 as key regulatory elements within the allosteric site, essential for transmitting conformational regulation upon ligand engagement. Pharmacological inhibition of the allosteric site disrupted Arid5a interaction with target RNA stem-loop structure, reduced stability of Il6 mRNA, and attenuated inflammatory responses in Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated macrophages. Furthermore, Arid5a inhibitors reduced the stability of other target mRNAs, including Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (Stat3) and OX40, in polarized T helper 17 (Th17) cells. In a murine model of LPS-induced septic shock, treatment with NFP1 or NFP2 significantly improved survival, reduced clinical severity, and mitigated tissue damage in vital organs. These findings identify a new mechanism regulating Arid5a activity and present Arid5a allosteric inhibition as a promising therapeutic strategy for managing systemic inflammation including sepsis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) is a pivotal oncogenic driver in multiple myeloma (MM), and its constitutive activation promotes malignant plasma cell proliferation, survival, and drug resistance in the bone marrow microenvironment. Despite therapeutic advances, MM remains incurable due to persistent STAT3-driven tumorigenesis and the resilience of MM stem cells. We investigated the therapeutic potential of napabucasin (BBI608), a novel STAT3 inhibitor, in MM. Our data demonstrated that BBI608 potently suppressed MM cell proliferation in vitro and in vivo, while significantly impairing the clonogenic potential and inducing robust apoptosis. Mechanistically, BBI608 exhibited dual efficacy by targeting bulk tumor cells and eradicating the stem-like compartment of MM cells, thereby addressing a critical therapeutic challenge. Moreover, we revealed that BBI608 triggered immunogenic cell death (ICD) via the activation of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and the unfolded protein response (UPR), which subsequently enhanced T-cell-mediated anti-tumor immunity. Our findings highlight STAT3 inhibition as a promising strategy to simultaneously eradicate MM cells, target stem cell reservoirs, and harness anti-tumor immunity, providing a robust rationale for the clinical translation of BBI608 in MM therapy.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health LLC., on behalf of the Chinese Medical Association (CMA) and Institute of Hematology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College (IHCAMS).
Deucravacitinib, an oral, selective tyrosine kinase 2 inhibitor, is approved in multiple countries for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis, as well as generalized pustular and erythrodermic psoriasis in Japan. Deucravacitinib 6 mg once daily was efficacious and well tolerated through 3 years in the pooled population of Japanese patients in the POETYK PSO-1 and PSO-4 trials who entered the ongoing open-label POETYK long-term extension trial. Safety and efficacy of deucravacitinib were evaluated through 5 years (256 weeks; data cutoff September 2, 2024) in Japanese patients who received continuous deucravacitinib in PSO-1 or PSO-4 or who crossed over from placebo to deucravacitinib at Week 16 in PSO-1. Safety was evaluated via adverse event (AE) exposure-adjusted incidence rates (EAIRs); efficacy was evaluated via endpoints including ≥ 75% reduction from baseline in the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI 75) and static Physician Global Assessment (sPGA) score of 0/1 (clear/almost clear). At data cutoff, 136 patients had received at least one deucravacitinib dose; 77.2% had > 48 months and 39.7% had > 60 months of total deucravacitinib exposure. EAIRs per 100 person-years were 182.1 (any AEs), 6.9 (serious AEs), 3.0 (discontinuations due to AEs), 1.6 (serious infections), 1.6 (herpes zoster events), 0.5 (major adverse cardiovascular events), and 1.4 (malignancies). Clinical responses (as observed) were maintained over 5 years in PSO-1 patients receiving continuous deucravacitinib treatment from baseline (PASI 75: Year 1, 88.9%; Year 5, 85.7%; sPGA 0/1: Year 1, 74.1%; Year 5, 71.4%); results were consistent regardless of imputation method (modified nonresponder imputation, treatment failure rule). Year 1 response rates were also maintained through Year 5 in PSO-4 patients and in PSO-1 patients who crossed over from placebo. These findings support the long-term safety and durable efficacy profile of deucravacitinib through 5 years in Japanese patients with psoriasis.© 2026 The Author(s). The Journal of Dermatology published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Dermatological Association.
This study aimed to investigate the role of the extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs) signaling pathway in orthodontic force-induced mechanotransduction and osteogenic differentiation, and explore its potential crosstalk with signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), whose regulatory mechanism remains unclear.In vitro, MC3T3-E1 preosteoblasts were exposed to cyclic tensile strain (2000 μstrain, 0.5 Hz, 4 h) with or without the specific ERKs inhibitor SCH772984. In vivo, a mouse orthodontic tooth movement (OTM) model was established with 4g force, and SCH772984 was locally injected into periodontal tissues. Pathway protein expression, osteogenic marker levels, tooth movement distance, and bone microarchitecture were analyzed.Mechanical strain significantly activated ERKs and STAT3 phosphorylation and upregulated key osteogenic markers (Runx2, OSX, OPN, ALP) in vitro; these effects were inhibited by SCH772984 except for COL1. In vivo, orthodontic force-induced alveolar bone remodeling and OTM, with osteogenic markers predominantly elevated on the tension side. SCH772984 treatment suppressed ERKs activation and reduced tooth movement by ~40% (all P<0.05).The ERKs pathway is a critical mediator of orthodontic force-induced alveolar bone remodeling and OTM, functioning partially through STAT3. These findings establish the ERKs/STAT3 axis as a promising therapeutic target for accelerating orthodontic treatment.Copyright © 2026 by Mutaz B. Habal, MD.
Information regarding the signaling axis involving triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 1 (TREM-1) and its downstream mediator, signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), remains limited in ischemic stroke. We investigated the plasma levels of TREM-1 in patients with ischemic stroke and compared to controls. Second, we investigated the potential correlation between plasma TREM-1 levels and STAT3 expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and explored their associations with stroke severity and functional outcomes.In an observational case-control study, plasma and PBMCs from participants were collected to measure TREM-1 and STAT3 expression levels. The National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) at admission, day 7, and 1 and 3 months, and the modified Rankin Scale (mRS) at 3 months post-discharge were assessed. Plasma TREM-1 levels and STAT3 expression were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), respectively. The Inflammation-Related Principal Component Score (IRPCS) was examined for its association with 3-month functional outcome.TREM-1 and STAT3 were significantly elevated in acute ischemic stroke (AIS) patients (p < 0.05, p < 0.0001) and positively correlated (ρ = 0.432, p < 0.0001). Both biomarkers correlated with the NIHSS at 1 and 3 months and mRS at 3 months (all p < 0.05). The composite IRPCS showed the strongest association with poor 3-month functional outcome among the tested biomarkers (OR = 2.84, 95% CI: 1.32-6.12, p = 0.008).Plasma TREM-1 levels were positively correlated with STAT3 expression. The TREM-1-STAT3 axis was associated with stroke severity and 3-month functional outcome in AIS patients. These findings should be regarded as exploratory and require validation in larger cohorts.© 2026 The Author(s). Brain and Behavior published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42557044 is a review article
A man in his early 50s presented with complaints of a painless, slow-growing mass in his right eye (OD) for 4 months. Examination of OD showed a well-demarcated, firm, subepithelial lesion on the temporal bulbar conjunctiva. Anterior segment optical coherence tomography (AS-OCT) revealed a compact-appearing, mildly reflective subepithelial lesion with back shadowing. Clinical differentials of benign reactive lymphoid hyperplasia and conjunctival lymphoma were considered and an excisional biopsy was performed. Histopathology revealed a cellular stromal tumour comprising spindle cells arranged in short fascicles. The Ki-67 index was 6%. Immunohistochemistry with signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 (STAT-6) showed moderate nuclear expression in lesional cells and giant cells. Correlating the histomorphology and STAT-6 positivity, a final diagnosis of conjunctival solitary fibrous tumour was made. Subsequent Ru-106 plaque radiotherapy was administered at a dose of 50 Gy to the site of the lesion. The patient was doing well with no signs of tumour recurrence at the 18-month follow-up. The novelty of this report lies in the illustration of AS-OCT findings, CD34-negative phenotype and the use of adjuvant Ru-106 plaque brachytherapy.© BMJ Publishing Group Limited 2026. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42547464 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42529768 is a review article
Integration of intracellular signalling and metabolic reprogramming is critical for macrophage polarisation and the induction of pro- or anti-inflammatory responses. However, the molecular switches that govern these processes remain incompletely defined. While 4-1BB ligand (4-1BBL), a member of the TNF superfamily, is known to promote sustained pro-inflammatory responses in macrophages, its role in anti-inflammatory macrophage responses has not been fully elucidated. This study identifies that 4-1BBL serves as a negative regulator of anti-inflammatory macrophage polarisation. Genetic deletion or pharmacological inhibition of 4-1BBL significantly enhanced the expression of anti-inflammatory cytokines and markers in mouse macrophages. In IL-4R signalling, 4-1BBL restrained Janus kinase 1 (JAK1) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 (STAT6) phosphorylation, thereby modulating transcriptional programmes associated with anti-inflammatory macrophage activation. Consistently, 4-1BBL deficiency elevated mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation and fatty acid oxidation, accompanied by increased expression of metabolic genes in anti-inflammatory macrophages. Transcriptomic analysis further revealed a shift towards anti-inflammatory and oxidative metabolic gene signatures in IL-4-treated 4-1BBL-deficient macrophages. Importantly, the inhibition of 4-1BBL signalling also augmented anti-inflammatory responses in human monocytes and facilitated the transition from pro-inflammatory to anti-inflammatory phenotypes. Collectively, these findings establish 4-1BBL as a crucial molecular switch that regulates macrophage polarisation by integrating inflammatory signalling with metabolic reprogramming, highlighting 4-1BBL as a potential therapeutic target for promoting inflammation resolution.© 2026 The Author(s). Immunology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
To observe the effect of electroacupuncture(EA) intervention on the interleukin-4 (IL-4)/Janus kinase 1 (JAK1)/signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 (STAT6) signaling pathway in colon tissue of chronic ulcerative colitis (UC) mouse model, in order to explore the potential mechanism of EA in promoting M2 macrophage polarization and improving intestinal mucosal barrier injury in UC mice.A total of 56 eight-week-old SPF BALB/c mice (28 males and 28 females) were stratified by sex and randomly assigned to blank group (15 mice) and modeling group (41 mice). 3% DSS solution was used to induce the chronic UC model. The successfully induced mice were further divided into model, EA+11B11, and EA groups. Finally, 12 mice were included in each group. Mice in the EA+11B11 group received intraperitoneal injection of IL-4 inhibitor 11B11 (10 mg/kg) before EA, and mice in the EA group were treated with EA(10 Hz/50 Hz, 1 mA) at "Guanyuan" (CV4), "Tianshu" (ST25), "Zusanli" (ST36) and "Shangjuxu" (ST37) for 20 min. The treatments were performed once daily for 14 consecutive days. After the intervention, the following aspects were evaluated. ① Symptom improvement:including disease activity index (DAI) score, macroscopic morphology score in colon, and hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining to observe the pathological changes in colon tissue;②Structure and function of intestinal mucosal barrier:including the observation of colonic tight junction structure by transmission electron microscopy, detection of intestinal leakage by in vivo imaging with fluorescein isothiocyanate-4D (FITC-4D), detection of the positive expressions of tight junction protein ZO-1 and occludin in colon tissue by immunofluorescence staining;③ Activation of IL-4/JAK1/STAT6 signaling pathway:detection of the relative expression levels of IL-4, p-JAK1/JAK1, and p-STAT6/STAT6 proteins in colon tissue by Western blot;④ Markers of M2 macrophage polarization:detection of the CD206+/CD86+ ratio in mesenteric lymph nodes, and CD206 and arginase-1 (Arg-1) positive expressions in colon tissue by flow cytometry and immunofluorescence staining, respectively.Compared with the blank group, mice in the model group showed significantly increased DAI score and macroscopic morphology score (P<0.05), disorganized colonic mucosal structure, severe intestinal fluorescence leakage, significantly decreased positive expressions of ZO-1 and occludin (P<0.05), reduced relative expression levels of IL-4, p-JAK1/JAK1, and p-STAT6/STAT6 proteins(P<0.05), as well as decreased CD206+/CD86+ ratio and positive expressions of CD206 and Arg-1 (P<0.05). Compared with the model group, the EA group exhibited reduced DAI and macroscopic morphology scores (P<0.05), improved colonic mucosal structure, and alleviated intestinal fluorescence leakage. The positive expressions of ZO-1 and occludin, and relative expression levels of IL-4, p-JAK1/JAK1, and p-STAT6/STAT6 proteins were significantly increased (P<0.05), along with elevated CD206+/CD86+ ratio, and CD206 and Arg-1 positive expressions (P<0.05). Compared with the EA group, the EA+11B11 group showed higher DAI and macroscopic morphology scores (P<0.05), disrupted colonic mucosal structure, obvious intestinal fluorescence leakage, decreased positive expressions of ZO-1 and occludin, and relative protein expression levels of IL-4, p-JAK1/JAK1, and p-STAT6/STAT6 (P<0.05), as well as reduced CD206+/CD86+ ratio, CD206 and Arg-1 positive expressions (P<0.05).EA can promote the repair of colonic mucosal barrier in mice with chronic UC and alleviate symptoms such as diarrhea and hematochezia, which may be associated with the activation of IL-4/JAK1/STAT6 signaling pathway and the inducing of M2 macrophage polarization in colon tissue.
Cerebral small-vessel disease (CSVD) represents a major etiology of vascular cognitive impairment (VCI), driven by pathological processes such as cellular senescence and neuroinflammation. Among these, microglia-the brain's specialized immune cells-play a key role in driving neuroinflammation through their senescence, thereby exacerbating cognitive dysfunction. Although signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 (STAT6) activation has been implicated in alleviating neuroinflammation and cognitive deficits in CSVD, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study sought to elucidate the roles of STAT6 and autophagy in the process of microglial senescence induced by CSVD. Using stroke-prone renovascular hypertensive rats (RHRSP) and chronic hypoxia-treated BV2 cells to assess cognitive function, microglial senescence, and autophagy, we observed that phosphorylation-mediated STAT6 activation significantly suppressed microglial senescence. Mechanistically, we found that phosphorylated STAT6 (pSTAT6) enhanced autophagy, which reduced the burden of senescent microglia and thereby ameliorated CSVD-induced VCI. These findings provide insights into the potential of targeting the STAT6 pathway in VCI associated with CSVD.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Solitary fibrous tumor (SFT) is a rare mesenchymal neoplasm of fibroblastic differentiation, originally described in the pleura and subsequently documented at multiple extrapleural sites. Oral involvement is uncommon and may be diagnostically challenging because of its variable clinical presentation and overlapping spindle-cell morphology.We report a palatal SFT with clinical, imaging, histopathological and immunohistochemical correlation. In parallel, a systematic review was conducted in PubMed, Scopus and Web of Science for studies published between January 2015 and December 2025. Case reports, case series and retrospective clinicopathologic studies describing primary oral SFT were included. Study selection followed PRISMA 2020 recommendations and methodological quality was appraised qualitatively using Joanna Briggs Institute (JBI) critical appraisal tools appropriate to each study design.Twelve eligible studies were included, comprising 10 case reports and 2 retrospective series for a total of 30 previously published oral SFTs. Soft-tissue lesions predominated, and the buccal mucosa/cheek was the most common location, followed by the floor of the mouth, tongue, labial mucosa, retromolar pad and intraosseous mandible. Across the reviewed studies, oral SFTs typically presented as slow-growing, well-circumscribed nodules and showed a patternless spindle-cell proliferation in a collagenous to hyalinized stroma with branching staghorn-like vessels. Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription 6 (STAT6) was the most informative confirmatory marker, while Cluster of Differentiation 34 (CD34), B-cell Lymphoma 2 (BCL2) and Cluster of Differentiation 99 (CD99) were supportive but less specific. Most lesions were managed by complete local excision and showed a favorable course. In the present case, diffuse nuclear STAT6 positivity together with CD34, CD99 and BCL2 expression supported the diagnosis of palatal SFT.Oral SFT is an uncommon but distinctive fibroblastic neoplasm that should be included in the differential diagnosis of spindle-cell lesions of the oral cavity. Diagnosis relies on integration of morphology with immunohistochemistry, particularly STAT6. Complete surgical excision with margin assessment remains the cornerstone of treatment, and a risk-adapted long-term follow-up strategy is advisable because rare recurrences may occur, particularly in intraosseous, margin-positive, or proliferatively active tumors.The systematic review was registered on Prospero with code ID 1358544.© 2026 Maglitto, Inchingolo, Cocis, Copelli, Marinelli, Calò, Ciocia, Rizzo, Inchingolo, Palermo, Severino, Inchingolo and Dipalma.
We have developed an optogenetic tool called InLOV-an insulin receptor fused to a LOV domain-that enables activation of the insulin receptor signaling pathway via light-induced phosphorylation of its intracellular domains. Light activation of InLOV promotes insulin-induced neuronal plasticity in the mouse cerebellum and enhances cerebellar-driven self-motion behavior. Thus, InLOV enables optogenetic modulation of insulin receptor phosphorylation, opening new possibilities for disease modeling and therapeutic strategies for pathological insulin signaling in humans.© 2026 The Author(s).
Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) are important components of the breast cancer (BC) microenvironment that contributes to tumor progression by secreting cytokines. Chemokine ligand 5 (CCL5) expression is upregulated in BC, but the specific mechanism of TAM-derived CCL5 in BC microenvironment remains elucidated. This article aims to explore the role of TAM-derived CCL5 in the progression of BC.M2-type TAMs were induced from Tohoku Hospital Pediatrics-1 (THP-1) monocytes. CCL5 expression in TAM cells was evaluated. The biological effects of recombinant or TAM-derived CCL5 on ZR-75-30 cells were examined using proliferation, migration, invasion assays, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) markers. CCL5 was silenced in TAMs and hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) was overexpressed to explore the downstream signaling pathway.CCL5 expression was significantly increased in TAMs compared with that in BC cells (P < 0.001). Recombinant CCL5 and TAM-conditioned medium promoted ZR-75-30 cell proliferation, migration, and invasion and EMT (P < 0.01), whereas CCL5 knockdown in TAMs markedly reversed these effects (P < 0.001). EMT-related changes, including decreased E-cadherin expression and increased Vimentin, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)2, and MMP9 expression levels, were reversed by CCL5 silencing (P < 0.01). Inhibition of CCL5 significantly reduced HIF-1α and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression levels (P < 0.001), and these reductions were rescued by HIF-1α overexpression (P < 0.01). Functional rescue experiments confirmed that HIF-1α overexpression restored cell proliferation and invasion and EMT suppressed by CCL5 knockdown. Angiogenesis was suppressed by CCL5 silencing and subsequently restored by HIF-1α overexpression (P < 0.001).TAM-derived CCL5 plays an oncogenic role in BC by regulating HIF-1α/VEGF pathway-mediated malignancy and angiogenesis.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Scientific Scholar.
Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is a common pregnancy complication linked to adverse outcomes for both mother and infant. Research on drug-related GDM remains limited.This study aims to explore the risk factors and potential mechanisms of drug-related GDM using the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS).We analyzed FAERS data from the past, focusing on drugs potentially associated with GDM. Significant drug signals were identified using statistical reporting odds ratio (ROR), proportional reporting ratio (PRR), empirical Bayesian geometric mean (EBGM), bayesian confidence propagation neural network (BCPNN), and univariate logistic regression analysis. We used multivariate logistic regression to analyze independent risk factors, built a multivariate logistic regression model to predict GDM, and used the generalized variance inflation factor (GVIF) to evaluate the multicollinearity of the predictive factors in the model. Furthermore, we performed gene target prediction, functional enrichment analysis, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis to explore the mechanisms involved, and assessed drug-genes interactions through molecular docking simulations.By analyzing 1137 cases of potentially drug-related GDM, we identified 12 drugs as potential independent risk factors for GDM. We constructed a multivariate logistic regression model incorporating drug and patient characteristics to predict GDM, with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.847. GVIF analysis confirmed that there was no multicollinearity among the predictors. Potential target genes of antipsychotic drugs are mainly enriched in cellular response to dopamine, phospholipase C-activating G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway, and blood circulation. After integrating the target gene group and the insulin receptor signaling pathway gene set, the potential target genes have extensive connections with the insulin receptor signaling pathway, with DRD2 and KCNH2 being hub genes in the PPI network.This study identified 12 drugs that may be independent risk factors for GDM, including quetiapine, aripiprazole, olanzapine, prednisolone, venlafaxine, risperidone, escitalopram, clozapine, mirtazapine, ziprasidone, rosuvastatin, and trazodone. The established predictive model has certain clinical value, and the potential mechanisms by which antipsychotic drugs may lead to GDM were further analyzed. These results provide potential clues for the early identification of GDM and early warning of suspected drugs, and offer a reference for further exploration of its pathogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Analyzing the network properties of cancer biomarkers within protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks is valuable for discovering novel biomarker candidates. Therefore, we constructed PPI networks using breast cancer (BC)-associated gene sets and performed 12 distinct centrality analyses to characterize the topological features of clinically validated biomarkers. Our reference set of biomarkers comprised genes from five clinical genetic testing panels-MammaPrint, Oncotype DX, PAM50, EndoPredict, and the BC Index-that were also present in the STRING database. The PPI networks were constructed from the top 2,000 BC-associated genes, ranked by disease score from the DISEASES database. These networks were then subjected to centrality analysis using five local and seven global measures. The top 5% centrality rankings were evaluated, demonstrating that maximum clique centrality (MCC) identified the highest proportion of known biomarkers, with an inclusion rate of approximately 36%. Furthermore, MCC generated a unique biomarker-ranking pattern, exhibiting a Spearman's rank correlation coefficient below 0.8 when compared with all other metrics. Consequently, a high MCC score is a key topological feature of many validated biomarkers. Genes with the highest MCC scores (top 5%) were significantly enriched for gene-ontology terms related to the cell cycle and fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling pathway. Additionally, biomarkers with high MCC scores exhibited significantly greater evolutionary conservation and potential for protein complex formation. Collectively, our findings indicate that many effective BC biomarkers are components of large, evolutionarily conserved cliques within cell-cycle-associated regions of the PPI network. Finally, based on this MCC-centric approach, we identified 11 novel candidate biomarkers.Copyright: © 2026 Sasaki, Torii. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41923724 is a review article
Rosa roxburghii Tratt. (Cili), a medicinal-edible herb predominantly distributed in Guizhou Province, exhibits diverse pharmacological properties, including anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and cell proliferation-promoting effects. Despite its recognized pharmacological value, the therapeutic efficacy and underlying mechanisms in fracture healing remain unexplored. This study aims to systematically investigate its potential mechanisms by integrating network pharmacology and molecular docking.The components of R. roxburghii Tratt. were retrieved from the PubChem, CNKI, VIP, and WANFANG databases, and their corresponding targets were screened from public databases. The targets of fracture healing were obtained from the GeneCards and OMIM databases. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analyses revealed the mechanisms of R. roxburghii Tratt. in fracture healing. The potential targets and core components were identified by constructing a protein-protein interaction network and a series of topological networks. Finally, molecular docking was performed to validate the binding of the core targets to the components.Gene Ontology analysis highlighted its regulation of vascular endothelial growth factor signaling pathway, cell migration, epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathways, and fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling pathways. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analysis suggested that R. roxburghii Tratt.'s mechanism may involve key pathways, such as hypoxia-inducible factor 1, phosphoinositide 3-kinase/protein kinase B, mitogen-activated protein kinase, tumor necrosis factor, and ras-associated protein-1 signaling pathway, while topological network analysis identified 4 core targets (tumor necrosis factor, prostaglandin G/H synthase 2, epidermal growth factor receptor, and proto-oncogene tyrosine-protein kinase Src) and 21 core components (naringenin, quercetin, kaempferol, isorhamnetin, luteolin, myricetin, etc), all critically associated with osteogenesis and angiogenesis. Molecular docking confirmed strong binding between these components and targets.These findings propose that R. roxburghii Tratt. may accelerate fracture healing by multitarget, components, and pathways regulating osteogenesis and angiogenesis, providing a scientific basis for its development and utilization.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Camel milk has gained increasing research interest as a high-value dairy product due to its unique nutritional composition and potential health benefits. However, the impact of low-temperature vacuum drying (LVD) on the quality and nutritional properties of camel milk powder remains largely unknown. This study systematically compared the physicochemical properties, microstructure, and protein profiles of camel milk powders produced by spray drying and LVD. The LVD-produced milk powder exhibited significantly higher moisture content, solubility, b* value, and particle size compared to spray-dried powder. Microstructural analysis revealed that spray-dried milk powder existed as aggregates of spherical particles, whereas LVD-produced powder displayed irregular and fragmented structures. Compared with raw camel milk, the α-helix content of spray-dried and LVD-produced milk powders decreased to 15.38 % and 15.72 %, respectively, while the random coil content increased to 16.54 % and 16.17 %. A total of 192 differentially expressed whey proteins (113 upregulated and 79 downregulated) were identified in the LVD-produced milk powder relative to spray-dried powder. Notably, LVD better preserved highly abundant whey proteins, including lactoferrin, lactoperoxidase, xanthine dehydrogenase/oxidase, α2-macroglobulin, lactadherin, amine oxidase, and Ig mu chain C region. Gene Ontology analysis indicated that these differentially expressed proteins were primarily associated with immune-related functions and insulin receptor signaling pathway. KEGG enrichment further revealed their involvement in N-glycan biosynthesis and IL-17 signaling pathway. Furthermore, ELISA confirmed that LVD-produced milk powder contained significantly higher levels of lactoferrin and lactoperoxidase. Collectively, these results establish a theoretical framework for optimizing processing protocols to produce high-quality camel milk powder.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a life-threatening condition characterized by progressive pulmonary vascular remodeling, and endothelial-mesenchymal transition (EndMT) is recognized as a critical pathogenic process driving this remodeling. This study investigated the role of microplastics (MPs) in promoting EndMT in human pulmonary artery endothelial cells (HPAECs) and its underlying regulatory mechanism. We demonstrated that MPs were internalized by HPAECs, leading to significant downregulation of endothelial markers (CD31 and VE-cadherin) and upregulation of mesenchymal markers (α-SMA and vimentin), thereby promoting EndMT. In a rat model of PH induced by monocrotaline, intratracheal instillation of MPs further increased right ventricular and pulmonary arterial pressures, exacerbated vascular remodeling, and enhanced inflammatory infiltration. RNA-seq analysis revealed that MPs activated inflammatory pathways and enhanced glycolysis in HPAECs, with significant upregulation of glycolytic genes such as HK2. Knockdown of HK2 attenuated the cell viability and migratory ability of HPAECs and counteracted MP-induced EndMT. Additionally, MPs increased lactate production and histone lactylation, which were reversed by HK2 interference. ChIP-seq further confirmed the altered histone lactylation by MPs in HPAECs, including 603 genes with hyper-lactylation and 1292 genes with hypo-lactylation. Genes with hyper-lactylation were related to inflammation, and genes with hypo-lactylation were associated with epithelial/endothelial cell migration, angiogenesis, and vascular endothelial growth factor signaling pathway. Integrative analysis of the RNA-seq and ChIP-seq data identified four PH- and inflammation-associated differentially expressed genes exhibiting hyper-lactylation (FOXO3, RUNX1, TNFRSF11B, and SGK1). Among them, RT-PCR and ChIP-qPCR confirmed the upregulation and increased histone lactylation of TNFRSF11B and SGK1. These findings highlight the critical role of MPs in modulating metabolic and histone lactylation in PH and suggest potential therapeutic targets for mitigating PH progression.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Yangxin decoction has been used to treat major depressive disorder (MDD). This study aims to identify the active components and potential mechanisms of Yangxin decoction in treating MDD using network pharmacology and molecular docking technology. The active components and targets of Yangxin decoction were screened, and MDD-related targets were predicted. Networks of "herbal medicine-active components-potential targets" and protein-protein interaction were constructed. Core components and core targets were identified through network topology analysis. Gene ontology functional and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analyses were performed on candidate genes. Molecular docking was conducted using AutoDock software (Olson Laboratory of the Scripps Research Institute, San Diego) to explore the interactions between core targets and active components, and the results were visualized using PyMOL (DeLano Scientific LLC, South San Francisco). A total of 433 active components and 392 targets of Yangxin decoction were identified, along with 11,796 MDD-related targets. There were 680 overlapping targets between Yangxin decoction and MDD, associated with 104 active components. Core targets identified through network topology analysis and molecular docking included serine/threonine kinase 1 (AKT1), tumor necrosis factor, interleukin-6, tumor protein P53, and proto-oncogene tyrosine-protein kinase Src. Gene ontology enrichment analysis revealed 1606 biological processes, 191 cellular components, and 373 molecular functions. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway analysis identified 212 signaling pathways, with significant enrichment in caffeine metabolism, bladder cancer, advanced glycation end products-receptor for advanced glycation end products signaling pathway in diabetic complications, and vascular endothelial growth factor signaling pathway. Molecular docking results showed strong binding energy between core active components and core targets. Yangxin decoction exhibits multi-component, multi-pathway, and multi-target therapeutic characteristics. It primarily regulates targets such as AKT1, tumor necrosis factor, interleukin-6, tumor protein P53, and proto-oncogene tyrosine-protein kinase Src through advanced glycation end products-receptor for advanced glycation end products, vascular endothelial growth factor, and ErbB signaling pathways, exerting anti-inflammatory, immune-regulating, and oxidative stress-inhibiting effects to alleviate MDD.Copyright © 2025 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Using vacant saline-alkali land for aquaculture has the advantages of resource utilization and significant economic and ecological benefits, but there is a need to understand the impact of variable alkalinity on aquacultural species. This study investigated the impact of different alkaline stress conditions (10 and 20 mmol/L) on transcription and changes in intestinal microbial communities in the oriental river prawn, Macrobrachium nipponense, over a 96-h period. Under low alkalinity conditions, pathways related to carbohydrate metabolism were activated, including glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, mannose metabolism, ascorbate and aldarate metabolism, carbohydrate binding, chitinase activity, and lysosome. Such conditions also led to an increase in the number of beneficial intestinal bacteria, such as Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, Actinobacteriota, and Acidobacteriota. However, high-alkaline conditions inhibited the fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling pathway, store-operated calcium channel activity, and MAPK signaling pathway, and significantly increased the number of pathogenic intestinal bacteria, such as Citrobacter. These results suggest that low alkalinity would promote the growth of M. nipponense by activating the glycolysis pathway and increasing the number of beneficial bacteria. By contrast, high alkalinity would inhibit their immune performance by affecting key signal transduction pathways and increasing harmful bacteria in the intestinal tract. Such insights provide a theoretical basis for the subsequent adaptive aquaculture of M. nipponense in saline-alkali areas.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Methyl parathion and its degradation product p-nitrophenol have become important environmental problems due to their high toxicity and persistence. In this study, the toxicological mechanism of methyl parathion and p-nitrophenol exposure increasing the risk of depression was studied through network toxicology and molecular docking methods. Based on the comprehensive analysis of PharmMapper, STITCH, SwissTargetPrediction, Similarity ensemble approach (SEA) and GeneCards databases, 35 potential targets related to methyl parathion and p-nitrophenol exposure were identified. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis revealed the key pathways of methyl parathion and p-nitrophenol affecting depression, included insulin-like growth factor receptor signaling pathway, serotonergic synapse. Combined with protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis and KEGG analysis, 14 core targets of depression related to methyl parathion and p-nitrophenol were screened out. Further, the targets MAP2K1 and APP with the highest binding scores with methyl parathion and p-nitrophenol, respectively, were screened by DeepPurpose, and the common target HRAS for molecular docking was determined. The molecular docking analysis further verified that methyl parathion and p-nitrophenol may have good binding activity with HRAS. This study provides valuable insights for understanding the molecular mechanism of environmental pollutants methyl parathion and p-nitrophenol affecting depression, and provides a theoretical basis for understanding the health risks of methyl parathion and p-nitrophenol.© 2025. The Author(s).
Transmembrane and tetratricopeptide repeat containing 1 (TMTC1) is a recently discovered enzyme involved in the O-mannosylation of cadherins and protocadherins. It has been implicated in various types of cancer, but the overall prognostic significance of TMTC1 in pan-cancer and its potential as an immunotherapeutic target remain unclear.We applied various bioinformatics methods to investigate the potential oncogenic roles of TMTC1 using public databases. This analysis involved examining the expression, prognosis, genetic alterations, immune infiltration, immunotherapy response, drug sensitivity, and regulatory mechanisms of the TMTC1 gene in diverse cancer types.In this study, we observed that TMTC1 expression is reduced in 19 types of cancer (ACC, BLCA, BRCA, CESC, COAD, ESCA, GBM, KICH, KIRC, KIRP, LAML, LUAD, LUSC, PRAD, READ, STAD, THCA, UCEC, and UCS) compared to normal tissues. Conversely, TMTC1 expression is elevated in OV and PAAD relative to normal tissues. Moreover, our analysis revealed that high expression of TMTC1 was associated with worse overall survival (OS) outcomes in patients with ACC, BLCA, COAD, GBM, KIRP, OV, STAD, and UCEC, but better OS outcomes in patients with CESC, KIRC, LUSC, and PAAD. Notably, patients with TMTC1 mutations or deep deletions demonstrated longer OS, while those with TMTC1 amplification showed shorter OS. There was a significant correlation between the expression level of TMTC1 and the infiltration of cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) and endothelial cells. Using data from six real-world immunotherapy cohorts of BLCA, SKCM and RCC, we discovered that high TMTC1 expression was associated with better OS or progression-free survival (PFS). Lastly, through TMTC1-related gene enrichment analysis, some biological processes and pathways were found to be significantly enriched, such as vascular endothelial growth factor receptor signaling pathway and ECM-receptor interaction.Our study demonstrates the prognostic significance of TMTC1 in pan-cancer and highlights its potential as an immunotherapeutic target.© 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Spiral ganglion neurons (SGNs) are the primary afferent neurons that convey sound information from the cochlea, but the epigenetic changes that occur during development are unknown. We identified the chromodomain helicase binding protein 4 (CHD4) expression in SGNs. CHD4 is an ATP-dependent chromatin remodeler. We employed the Neurog1 (Ngn1) CreERT2Chd4 conditional knockout animals to investigate Chd4 function in SGNs. SGNs are classified as type I and II neurons with different innervation patterns. SGNs lacking CHD4 showed abnormal fasciculation of type I neurons along with improper pathfinding of type II fibers. CHD4 binding to chromatin from immortalized multipotent otic progenitor-derived neurons was used to identify candidate target genes in SGNs. Gene ontology analysis of CHD4 target genes revealed cellular processes involved in axon guidance, axonal fasciculation, and the ephrin receptor signaling pathway. Eph/ephrin signaling regulates various biological processes, including axon guidance. We confirmed increased Eph/ephrin transcripts in SGNs from Chd4 conditional knockout cochleae. The results implicate epigenetic changes in circuit wiring by modulating the expression of a subset of axon guidance molecules. The results also provide insights into neurodevelopmental diseases such as Sifrim-Hitz-Weiss syndrome (SIHIWES) and inform strategies for regenerating SGNs.
Cesarean section (CS) confers increased risk of type I diabetes, asthma, inflammatory bowel disease, celiac disease, overweight and obesity, etc., in the offspring. However, the underlying mechanism remains unknown. To investigate the influence of CS on gene expression in cord blood, we have performed RNA-sequencing followed by single-gene analysis, gene set enrichment analysis, gene co-expression network analysis, and interacting genes/proteins analysis in eight full-term infants born by elective CS and eight matched vaginally delivered (VD) infants. Crucial genes identified above were further validated in another 20 CS and 20 VD infants. We found for the first time that mRNA expression of genes involved in immune response (IL12A, INFG, IL1B, TNF, MIF, IL4, CA1, IFI27, HLA-DOB and EPHB1) and metabolism (DLK1, CYP2A6 and GATM) were significantly influenced by CS. Notably, serum TNF-α and IFN-γ were remarkably up-regulated in the CS infants (p = 5.0 × 10-4 and 3.0 × 10-3, respectively) compared to the VD infants. It is biologically plausible that CS may exert adverse impacts on offspring health through influencing expression of genes in the above processes. These findings will help understand the potential underlying mechanisms of the adverse health impacts of CS and identify biomarkers for future health of offspring born with different delivery modes.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s43657-022-00086-7.© International Human Phenome Institutes (Shanghai) 2023. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
The pathological mechanisms of neural tube defects (NTDs) are not yet fully understood. Although the dysregulation of histone modification in NTDs is recognized, it remains to be fully elucidated on a genome-wide level. We profiled genome-wide H3K27me3 and H3K27ac occupancy by CUT&Tag in neural tissues from ICR mouse embryos with benzo[a]pyrene (BaP)-induced NTDs (250 mg kg-1) at E9.5. Furthermore, we performed RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) to investigate the regulation of histone modifications on gene expressions. Gene ontology and KEGG analysis were conducted to predict pathways involved in the development of NTDs. Our analysis of histone 3 lysine 27 modification in BaP-NTD neural tissues compared to BaP-nonNTD revealed 6045 differentially trimethylated regions and 3104 acetylated regions throughout the genome, respectively. The functional analysis identified a number of pathways uniquely enriched for BaP-NTD embryos, including known neurodevelopment related pathways such as anterior/posterior pattern specification, ephrin receptor signaling pathway, neuron migration and neuron differentiation. RNA-seq identified 423 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between BaP-NTD and BaP-nonNTD group. The combination analysis of CUT&Tag and RNA-seq found that 55 DEGs were modified by H3K27me3 and 25 by H3K27ac in BaP-NTD, respectively. In the transcriptional regulatory network, transcriptional factors including Srsf1, Ume6, Zbtb7b, and Cad were predicated to be involved in gene expression regulation. In conclusion, our results provide an overview of histone modifications during neural tube closure and demonstrate a key role of genome-wide alterations in H3K27me3 and H3K27ac in NTDs corresponding with changes in transcription profiles.
Short Tandem repeats (STRs) often occur within coding regions and adaptive selection could play a vital role in shaping the landscape of coding STRs. Here, we identified 849, 1282 and 1501 genes that contained 966, 1565 and 1921 STRs in the coding regions of the giant panda, polar bear and brown bear genomes, respectively. The results showed that coding STRs were subject to strong selection on STR type, motif, repetition and mode of evolution. Coding STRs were primarily found in regulatory genes. Of the three ursids studied, we found 585 differential genes in the giant panda. Gene Ontology analysis showed that the significant enrichment term (insulin-like growth factor receptor signaling pathway) exerted direct carbohydrate metabolic effects in vivo in this species. The enrichment of this pathway suggested that the giant panda's ability to absorb carbohydrates (starch) and adapt to a bamboo diet might be enhanced by variable coding STRs. We also identified 377 conserved coding STRs located in 377 genes across the three species. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analysis showed that these genes were significantly enriched in two pathway involved in key physiological processes, including cardiovascular function and energy metabolism regulation. This study provides an important resource for future studies on the regulation of rapid diet and environmental adaptation of species by coding STRs.© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
The endometrium receptivity was impaired by controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH), which would then lead to fertility issues and increased abortion clinically. In the present study, to explore the effectiveness of Tiaojing Zhuyun Formula (TJZYF) in improving endometrial receptivity of COH rats and the possible active ingredients and mechanisms, an approach of network pharmacology was performed and a COH animal model was established. As analyzed, stigmasterol and quercetin may be the active ingredients of TJZYF on improving endometrial receptivity and positive regulation of ion transport, the cytokine-mediated signaling pathway, and endocrine process, and vascular endothelial growth factor receptor signaling pathway may be involved. Eighty female rats were divided into four groups randomly: control, model, TJZYF, and TJZYF+si-VEGFA. COH rat models were constructed by injecting with human menopausal gonadotropin (HMG) and human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG). We found that both endometrial thickness and number of embryo implantations in model were substantially reduced vs. control. The gene and protein expressions of VEGF, PI3K, and p-Akt in the uterus were significantly reduced. TJZYF could increase the endometrial thickness and number of embryo implantations and enhance the expressions of VEGF, PI3K, and p-Akt in the uterus. In the TJZYF+si-VEGFA group, the effect of TJZYF was impaired. Generally, TJZYF could improve the endometrium receptivity and facilitate embryo implantation of COH rats by upregulating VEGF and enhancing the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway.Copyright © 2022 Fang You et al.
microRNAs contribute to the development and progression of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). However, the underlying molecular mechanisms are largely unclear. The goal of this study was to investigate the roles of miR-378 in alveolar epithelial type II cells and identify molecular mechanisms which contribute to the pathogenesis of COPD.Human alveolar epithelial (A549) cells were cultured in Dulbecco's Modified Eagle Medium. Cell proliferation was studied by using a cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) and colony formation assays. Cell apoptosis and cell cycle were analyzed by flow cytometry and wound healing and Transwell were used to analyze the cell migration and. We performed bioinformatics analysis including target gene prediction, gene ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genome (KEGG) pathway enrichment and construction of protein-protein interaction (PPI) network. The expression of miR-378 and NPNT from publically available expression microarray of COPD lung tissues was analyzed.Overexpression of miR-378 significantly increases cell proliferation, migration, and suppress apoptosis. GO analysis demonstrated that the miR-378 involved in transcription, vascular endothelial growth factor receptor signaling pathway, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signaling, cell migration, blood coagulation, cell shape, protein stabilization and phosphorylation. Pathway enrichment showed that the 1,629 target genes of miR-378 were associated with mTOR, ErbB, TGF-β, MAPK, and FoxO signaling pathways. Notably, miR-378 directly targets Nephronectin in A549 cells, and miR-378 was upregulated while NPNT was downregulated in COPD lung tissue samples.These findings suggest that miR-378 can regulate the proliferation, migration, and apoptosis of A549 cells and target NPNT. miR-378 increased in COPD lung tissues while NPNT decreased, and might prove a potential target for novel drug therapy.© 2022 Qian et al.
Exposure to fine particulate matter (PM2.5) has significant effects on human skin health, mainly disrupting skin homeostasis and accelerating aging. To date, the effects of PM2.5 on psoriasis (PSO) have not been elucidated. An ambient particulate matter exposed and well characterized imiquimod (IMQ)-induced psoriasis mouse model was established. Thirty male C57BL/6 mice aged 8 weeks were randomly divided into three groups: filtered air (FA) group (Control group), PSO+ FA group and PSO + PM2.5 group. A KRT17 knockdown (KRT17-KD) mouse model was simultaneously established by subcutaneously injecting KRT17-KD lentivirus. Forty male C57BL/6 mice were randomly divided into four groups: PSO + FA + KRT17-RNAi negative control lentivirus (KRT17-NC) group, PSO+ FA+ KRT17-KD group, PSO + PM2.5 + KRT17-NC group and PSO + PM2.5 + KRT17-KD group. PM2.5 exposure continued for 8 weeks. Psoriasis was induced by topically applying IMQ on the dorsal skin of the mice for 6 days during week 8. Morphometric and histological analyses were performed to investigate the changes in psoriatic lesions. Differentially expressed genes and enriched pathways were explored using bioinformatics analysis and showed that KRT17 gene and the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor signaling pathway were associated with psoriasis. HaCaT cells were stimulated with interleukin-17A and infected with KRT17-KD lentivirus to establish an in vitro KRT17 knockdown psoriasis cell model. Notably, PM2.5 exposure increased the expression of KRT17 protein and activated AKT/mTOR/HIF-1α signaling pathway in vivo. Moreover, specific agonist of AKT (740Y-P) reversed the decreased neovascularization induced by KRT17 knockdown through AKT/mTOR/HIF-1α signaling pathway in vitro. Consequently, PM2.5 exposure could promote the development and progression of psoriasis through KRT17-dependent activation of AKT/mTOR/HIF-1α signaling pathway.Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ischemic stroke (IS) is a multifactorial disease caused by the interaction of multiple environmental and genetic risk factors, and it is the most common cause of disability. The immune microenvironment and inflammatory response participate in the whole process of IS occurrence and development. Therefore, the rational use of relevant markers or characteristic pathways in the immune microenvironment will become one of the important therapeutic strategies for the treatment of IS. We collected peripheral blood samples from 10 patients diagnosed with IS at the First Affiliated Hospital of Gannan Medical University and First Affiliated Hospital, Jinan" University, and from 10 normal people. The GSE16561 dataset was downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. xCell, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), single-sample GSEA (ssGSEA) and immune-related gene analysis were used to evaluate the differences in the immune microenvironment and characteristic pathways between the IS and control groups of the two datasets. xCell analysis showed that the IS-24h group had significantly reduced central memory CD8+ T cell, effector memory CD8+ T cell, B cell and Th1 cell scores and significantly increased M1 macrophage and macrophage scores. GSEA showed that the IS-24h group had significantly increased inflammation-related pathway activity(myeloid leukocyte activation, positive regulation of tumor necrosis factor biosynthetic process, myeloid leukocyte migration and leukocyte chemotaxis), platelet-related pathway activity(platelet activation, signaling and aggregation; protein polymerization; platelet degranulation; cell-cell contact zone) and pathology-related pathway activity (ERBB signaling pathway, positive regulation of ERK1 and ERK2 cascade, vascular endothelial growth factor receptor signaling pathway, and regulation of MAP kinase activity). Immune-related signature analysis showed that the macrophage signature, antigen presentation-related signature, cytotoxicity-related signature, B cell-related signature and inflammation-related signature were significantly lower in the IS-24h group than in the control group. In this study, we found that there were significant differences in the immune microenvironment between the peripheral blood of IS patients and control patients, as shown by the IS group having significantly reduced CD8+ Tcm, CD8+ Tem, B cell and Th1 cell scores and significantly increased macrophage and M1 macrophage scores. Additionally, inflammation-related, pathological, and platelet-related pathway activities were significantly higher in the IS group than in the control group.Copyright © 2022 Liu, Song, Gu, Liang, Sun, Hua, Zhang and Qiu.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF-A) is a crucial stimulator of vascular cell migration and proliferation. Using bone marrow-derived human adult mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) that did not express VEGF receptors, we provide evidence that VEGF-A can stimulate platelet-derived growth factor receptors (PDGFRs), thereby regulating MSC migration and proliferation. VEGF-A binds to both PDGFRalpha and PDGFRbeta and induces tyrosine phosphorylation that, when inhibited, results in attenuation of VEGF-A-induced MSC migration and proliferation. This mechanism was also shown to mediate human dermal fibroblast (HDF) migration. VEGF-A/PDGFR signaling has the potential to regulate vascular cell recruitment and proliferation during tissue regeneration and disease.
Skipped: PubMed ID 11445442 is a review article
